.\" Version: 1.2 
.\"
.TH ocf_suse_SAPHanaTopology 7 "02 Dec 2024" "" "OCF resource agents"
.\"
.SH NAME
.\"
SAPHanaTopology \- Helps to manage two SAP HANA databases with system replication.
.PP
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"
\fBSAPHanaTopology\fP [start | stop | status | monitor | meta\-data | validate\-all | reload | methods | usage ]
.PP
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"
SAPHanaTopology is a resource agent (RA) that analyzes the SAP HANA topology
and "sends" all findings via cluster information base (CIB) attributes to all
nodes in the cluster. These attributes are taken by the SAPHanaController RA to
control the SAP HANA databases. In addition SAPHanaTopology starts and monitors
the local saphostagent.
.PP
The resource agent uses the following interfaces provided by SAP:
.PP
1. \fBlandscapeHostConfiguration.py\fP
.br
landscapeHostConfiguration.py has some detailed output about HANA system
status and node roles. For our monitor the overall status is relevant. This
overall status is reported by the return code of the script:
0: Internal Fatal, 1: ERROR, 2: WARNING, 3: INFO (e.g. host auto-failover happened), 4: OK
.br
The SAPHanaTopology resource agent will interpret return code 0 as FATAL,
1 as NOT-RUNNING (or ERROR) and return codes 2+3+4 as RUNNING. FATAL means the
status can not be determined.
.br
SAPHanaTopology scans the output of landscapeHostConfiguration.py to identify
the roles of the cluster node. Roles means configured and current role of the
nameserver as well as the indexserver.
.PP
2. \fBhdbnsutil\fP
.br
The interface hdbnsutil is used to check the "topology" of the system
replication as well as the current configuration (primary/secondary) of a
SAP HANA database. A second task of the interface is the posibility to run
a system replication takeover (sr_takeover) or to register a former primary
to a newer one (sr_register). In scale-out setups, hdbnsutil sometimes
might take some time. SAPHanaTopology uses only task one. SAPHanaController 
is using all three tasks.
.PP
3. \fBsaphostctrl\fP
.br
The interface saphostctrl uses the function ListInstances to figure out the
virtual host name of the SAP HANA instance. This is typically the hostname used 
during the HANA installation.
.PP
Please notice that the method to "send" the findings via the node status
attributes might change in a next version. So please do not think about those
attributes as an "API". Also do not adjust those automatically set node
attributes manulally in normal operation. Names and semantics of the attributes
can change in next versions.
.PP
Please see also the REQUIREMENTS section below.
.PP
.\"
.SH SUPPORTED PARAMETERS
.\"
This resource agent supports the following parameters:
.PP
\fBSID\fR
.RS 4
SAP System Identifier. Has to be same on both instances.
Example "SID=SLE".
.RE
.PP
\fBInstanceNumber\fR
.RS 4
Number of the SAP HANA database.
For system replication also Instance Number+1 is blocked.
Example "InstanceNumber=00".
.RE
.PP
\fBHANA_CALL_TIMEOUT\fR
.RS 4
Define timeout how long a call to HANA to receive information can take. This
could be e.g. landscapeHostConfiguration.py.
There are some specific calls to HANA which have their own timeout values.
For example the sr_takeover command does not timeout (inf).
If the timeout is reached, the return code will be 124. If you increase the
timeouts for HANA calls you should also adjust the operation timeouts of your
Linux cluster resources.
.br
Optional. Default value: 120
.RE
.PP
.\"
.SH SUPPORTED PROPERTIES
.\"
\fBhana_${sid}_glob_filter\fR
.RS 4
Global cluster property \fBhana_${sid}_glob_filter\fR . This property defines which messages are logged by the RA. It should only be set if requested by support engineers. The default is sufficient for normal operation.
.br
Message Types: [ act | dbg | dec | flow | top ]
.\" TODO dbg2?
.\" TODO message levels: (dbg)|info|warn|err|error
.br
ACT: Action. Start, stop, sr_takeover and others. See also section SUPPORTED ACTIONS.
.br
DBG: Debugging info. Usually not needed at customer site. See SUSE TID 7022678 for maximum RA tracing.
.br
DEC: Decision taken by the RA.
.br
FLOW: Function calls and the respective return codes.
.br
TOP: Topology. Messages related to HANA SR topology, like site name and remote site.
.br
Optional, advanced. Default value: ra-act-dec-lpa\&.
.RE
.PP
.\"
.SH SUPPORTED ACTIONS
.br
This resource agent supports the following actions (operations):
.PP
\fBstart\fR
.RS 4
Sets the status of the clone to "started".
.RE
.PP
\fBstop\fR
.RS 4
Sets the status of the clone to "stopped".
.RE
.PP
\fBstatus\fR
.RS 4
Reports whether the HANA instance is running.
Suggested minimum timeout: 60\&.
.RE
.PP
\fBmonitor\fR
.RS 4
Analyses the nodes HANA roles and landscape status.
Suggested minimum timeout: 600\&.
Suggested interval: 50\&.
.RE
.PP
\fBvalidate\-all\fR
.RS 4
Reports whether the parameters are valid.
Suggested minimum timeout: 5\&.
.RE
.PP
\fBmeta\-data\fR
.RS 4
Retrieves resource agent metadata (internal use only).
Suggested minimum timeout: 5\&.
.RE
.PP
\fBmethods\fR
.RS 4
Reports which methods (operations) the resource agent supports.
Suggested minimum timeout: 5\&.
.RE
.PP
\fBreload\fR
.RS 4
Changes parameters without forcing a recover of the resource. Suggested minimum timeout: 5.
.RE
.PP
.\"
.SH RETURN CODES
.\"
The return codes are defined by the OCF cluster framework.
Please refer to the OCF definition on the website mentioned below.
.br
In addition return code 124 is used if HANA_CALL_TIMEOUT has been exceeded.
.PP
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.\"
* Example configuration of SAPHanaTopology resource for HANA scale-up.
.br
In addition, a SAPHanaController resource is needed to make this work.
The SAPHanaTopology monitoring intervall should be shorter than the one of that
SAPHanaController.
.RE
.PP
.RS 4
primitive rsc_SAPHanaTop_SLE_HDB00 ocf:suse:SAPHanaTopology \\
.br
op start interval="0" timeout="600" \\
.br
op stop interval="0" timeout="600" \\
.br
.\" TODO check interval
op monitor interval="50" timeout="600" \\
.br
params SID="SLE" InstanceNumber="00"
.PP
clone cln_SAPHanaTop_SLE_HDB00 rsc_SAPHanaTop_SLE_HDB00 \\
.br
meta clone-node-max="1" interleave="true"
.RE
.PP
* Example configuration of SAPHanaTopology resource for HANA scale-out.
.br
The HANA consists of two sites with five nodes each. An additional cluster node
is used as majority maker for split brain situations.
In addition, a SAPHanaController resource is needed to make this work.
The SAPHanaTopology monitoring intervall should be shorter than the one of that
SAPHanaController.
.RE
.PP
.RS 4
primitive rsc_SAPHanaTop_SLE_HDB00 ocf:suse:SAPHanaTopology \\
.br
op start interval="0" timeout="600" \\
.br
op stop interval="0" timeout="600" \\
.br
op monitor interval="50" timeout="600" \\
.br
params SID="SLE" InstanceNumber="00"
.PP
clone cln_SAPHanaTop_SLE_HDB00 rsc_SAPHanaTop_SLE_HDB00 \\
.br
meta clone-node-max="1" interleave="true"
.PP
location SAPHanaTop_not_on_majority_maker cln_SAPHanaTop_SLE_HDB00 -inf: vm-majority
.PP
order SAPHanaTop_first Optional: cln_SAPHanaTop_SLE_HDB00 mst_SAPHanaCon_SLE_HDB00
.RE
.PP
* Showing the current SAPHanaTopology resource configuration on scale-up.
.br
The primitive is "rsc_SAPHanaTop_SLE_HDB00" and clone is "cln_SAPHanaTop_SLE_HDB00".
The constraints´ names are starting with "SAPHanaTop".
.RE
.PP
.RS 4
# crm configure show | grep SAPHanaTop
.br
# crm configure show rsc_SAPHanaTop_SLE_HDB00
.br
# crm configure show cln_SAPHanaTop_SLE_HDB00
.br
# crm configure show SAPHanaTop_first
.RE
.PP
* Correlating SAPHanaTopology syslog entry with HANA nameserver trace entry. 
.br
.RS 4
# grep "SAPHanaTop.*16933.*monitor_clone" /var/log/messages | awk '{print $1,$3,$7,$11,$12,$13}'
.br
# su - hxeadm
.br
~> cdtrace
.br
~> grep "2023-11-01.*parent.*16933" nameserver_*trc | awk '{print $2,$3,$22,$23,$24,$25}'
.br
~> exit
.RE
.PP
.\"
.SH FILES
.TP
/usr/lib/ocf/resource.d/suse/SAPHanaController
the controller resource agent
.TP
/usr/lib/ocf/resource.d/suse/SAPHanaTopology
the topology resource agent
.TP
/usr/lib/ocf/resource.d/suse/SAPHanaFilesystem
the filesystem monitoring resource agent
.TP
/usr/lib/SAPHanaSR-angi/
directory with function libraries
.TP
$HA_RSCTMP/SAPHana/SAPTopologyON.$SID
the RA's status file (subject to change)
.TP
/usr/sap/$SID/$InstanceName/exe
default path for DIR_EXECUTABLE
.TP
/usr/sap/$SID/SYS/profile
default path for DIR_PROFILE
.\"
.\" TODO: INSTANCE_PROFILE
.\"
.PP
.SH REQUIREMENTS
.\"
For the current version of the SAPHanaTopology resource agent that comes with
the software package SAPHanaSR-angi, the support is limited
to the scenarios and parameters described in the respective manual page
SAPHanaSR-angi(7) and its references.
.PP
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.\"
\fBocf_suse_SAPHanaController\fP(7) , \fBocf_suse_SAPHanaFilesystem\fP(7) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR-showAttr\fP(8) , \fBcrm\fP(8), 
\fBSAPHanaSR-angi\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR-ScaleOut\fP(7) ,
.br
https://documentation.suse.com/sbp/sap/ ,
.br
http://clusterlabs.org/doc/en-US/Pacemaker/1.1/html/Pacemaker_Explained/s-ocf-return-codes.html ,
.br
http://scn.sap.com/docs/DOC-60334
.br
http://scn.sap.com/community/hana-in-memory/blog/2015/12/14/sap-hana-sps-11-whats-new-ha-and-dr--by-the-sap-hana-academy ,
.PP
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
.\"
F.Herschel, L.Pinne.
.PP
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.\"
(c) 2014 SUSE Linux Products GmbH, Germany.
.br
(c) 2015-2017 SUSE Linux GmbH, Germany.
.br
(c) 2018-2024 SUSE LLC
.br
SAPHanaTopology comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
.br
For details see the GNU General Public License at
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
