.\" Version: 1.2 
.\"
.TH SAPHanaSR_with_DR_HA_setup 7 "27 May 2026" "" "SAPHanaSR-angi"
.\"
.SH NAME
. \"
SAPHanaSR_with_DR_HA_setup \- SAPHanaSR with HA cluster at DR region setup procedure.
.PP
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"
Two HANA system replication pairs are connected by a third HANA system replication.
Each pair is configured as Linux cluster for the scale-up performance-optimised
scenario. The first pair is running reguarly as production region (site1, site2).
The second pair is running in DR mode (site3, site4).
See manual page SAPHanaSR_with_DR_HA(7) for details
.PP
The two clusters could be set up and connected by different procedures:
.PP
a. Set up HANA and Linux clusters in both regions separately. Test both regions
in production mode before connecting them. Test takeover, register and DR mode
once both regions are connected. This procedure is outlined as example below.
This is the recommended setup procedure.
.PP
b. Set up HANA and Linux clusters in production region. Connect HANA DR site
(or region) without Linux cluster there. Test production region.
Install cluster at DR region in DR mode. Test takeover.
.\" TODO Test production mode again.
Test register and DR mode. This procedure is possible, but not recommended.
See manual pages SAPHanaSR(7), SAPHanaController-scale-up(7), susHanaSR.py(7),
SAPHanaSR_basic_cluster(7), SAPHanaSR_multi-target(7), SAPHanaSR_with_DR_HA(7), 
et al.
.PP
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.\"
The examples are outlining highlevel procedures as well as describing basic tasks.
Detailled runbooks can be created by using the appropriate tasks for adding details
to the procedures.
.PP
\fB*\fP Procedure to set up HANA and Linux clusters in both regions.
.PP
Set up HANA and Linux clusters in both regions separately. Test both regions in
production role before connecting them. Test takeover and DR role after both are
connected.
SID is HA1, instance number is 00.
.PP
.RS 2
site1, node1: production primary
.br
site2, node2: production secondary
.br
site3, node3: current temporary primary, to become first DR replication target
.br
site4, node4: current temporary secondary, to second DR replication target
.RE
.PP
Please see also the REQUIREMENTS section in manual page SAPHanaSR_with_DR_HA(7).
.PP
.RS 2
1. Collect information and prepare parameter sheet.
.PP
2. Install SAPHanaSR-angi scale-up performance-optimised scenario at production
region (site1, site2).
.RS 4
See manual pages SAPHanaSR(7), SAPHanaController-scale-up(7), susHanaSR.py(7),
SAPHanaSR_basic_cluster(7), et al.
.RE
.PP
3. Check that everything works fine at production region (site1, site2).
.PP
4. Install SAPHanaSR-angi scale-up performance-optimised scenario at DR region
(site3, site4).
.RS 4
See manual pages SAPHanaSR(7), SAPHanaController-scale-up(7), susHanaSR.py(7),
SAPHanaSR_basic_cluster(7), et al.
Please do not use the same IP address at both regions during installation. 
.RE
.PP
5. Check that everything works fine at DR region (site3, site4).
.PP
6. Copy HANA secure keystore from production primary (site1) to DR nodes.
(site3, site4).
.RS 4
See example "Copying HANA secure keystore from production primary to nodes at DR region."
.RE
.PP
7. Add entry in global.ini to register secondaries on takeover.
.\" TODO
.RS 4
See example "Entry in global.ini to register secondaries on takeover."
.RE
.PP
8. Add DR specific colocation constraint for IPaddr2 to both clusters.
.RS 4
See example "Preventing IPaddr2 from starting at DR sites."
.RE
.PP
9. Set SAPHanaController multi-state resource into maintenance at DR region (node3, node4).
.RS 4
node3 # crm resource maintenance mst_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00
.RE
.PP
10. Stop HANA at DR region (node3, node4). Stop primary first.
.RS 4
node3 # su - ha1adm -c "HDB stop"
.br
node4 # su - ha1adm -c "HDB stop"
.RE
.PP
11. Change SAPHanaController to "PREFER_SITE_TAKEOVER=DR" at DR region.
.RS 4
node3 # crm configure set rsc_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00.PREFER_SITE_TAKEOVER DR
.br
node3 # crm configure show rsc_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00 | grep PREFER_SITE_TAKEOVER
.RE
.PP
.B The next steps will overwrite all HANA data at DR sites (site3, site4).
.PP
12. Register first DR site (node3) as secondary to production primary (site1).
.RS 4
node3 # su - ha1adm
.br
node3 ~> hdbnsutil -sr_register --remoteHost=node1 --remoteInstance=00 \\
.br
 --replicationMode=async --operationMode=logreplay \\
.br
 --force_full_replica --name=site3
.br
node3 ~> exit
.RE
.PP
13. Start HANA at first DR site (site3).
.RS 4
node3 # su - ha1adm -c "HDB start"
.RE
.PP
14. Enable system replication at first DR site (site3).
.RS 4
node3 # su - ha1adm -c "hdbnsutil -sr_enable"
.RE
.PP
15. Register second DR site (site4) as secondary to first DR site (site3).
.RS 4
node4 # su - ha1adm
.br
node4 ~> hdbnsutil -sr_register --remoteHost=node3 --remoteInstance=00 \\
.br
 --replicationMode=syncmem --operationMode=logreplay \\
.br
 --force_full_replica --name=site4
.br
node4 ~> exit
.RE
.PP
16. Start second DR site (site4).
.RS 4
node4 # su - ha1adm -c "HDB start"
.RE
.PP
17. Refresh SAPHanaController multi-state resource.
.RS 4
node4 # crm resource refresh mst_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00
.RE
.PP
18. Get SAPHanaController multi-state resource out of maintenance.
.RS 4
node4 # crm resource maintenance mst_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00 off
.RE
.PP
19. Change srHook attribute of first DR site (site3) to SWAIT.
.RS 4
node4 # crm_attribute -n hana_ha1_site_srHook_site3 -v SWAIT -t crm_config -s SAPHanaSR
.RE
.PP
20. Change IP address at DR region (site3, site4) to match production (optional).
.RS 4
See example "Changing IPaddr2 at DR sites to match production."
.RE
.PP
21. Check that everything works fine.
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Entry in global.ini to register secondaries on takeover.
.PP
This entry is needed at all HANA nodes. The HANA has to be stopped before the file
can be edited. Do not copy the file global.ini between nodes.
Please check SAP HANA documentation for details.
.\" TODO setParameter.py
.PP
.RS 2
[system_replication]
.br
 ...
.br
register_secondaries_on_takeover = true
 ...
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Copying HANA secure keystore from production primary to nodes at DR region.
.PP
Needs to be done at production primary before registering the DR secondaries.
Production primary is node2. DR secondary nodes are node3 and node4, SID is HA1.
.PP
.RS 2
node1 # cd /usr/sap/HA1/SYS/global/security/rsecssfs
.br
node1 # md5sum */*
.br
node1 # rsync -va * node3:$PWD/
.br
node1 # rsync -va * node4:$PWD/
.br
node1 # ssh node3 "md5sum $PWD/*/*"
.br
node1 # ssh node4 "md5sum $PWD/*/*"
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Preventing IPaddr2 from starting at DR sites.
.PP
The production HANA database might be accessed by the same IP address at both
regions. In that case the IP address must not run on the current DR sites.
Two location contstraints are preventing from starting the IPaddr2 resource at
any DR site. This constraint is needed at both regions.
SID is HA1, instance number is 00.
.PP
.RS 2
location loc_ip_not_dr_1 rsc_ip_HA1_HDB00 rule -inf: \\
.br
 master-rsc_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00 lt 145
.br
location loc_ip_not_dr_2 rsc_ip_HA1_HDB00 rule -inf: \\
.br
 not_defined master-rsc_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Changing IPaddr2 at DR sites to match production.
.PP
The production HANA database might be accessed by the same IP address at both
regions. However, during installation and testing phase both regions should use
different IP addresses. Once one of the clusters is running in DR mode, in that
cluster the IP address can be changed to match the production.
SID is HA1, instance number is 00, IP address is 192.168.22.22 .
.PP
.RS 2
# crm configure set rsc_ip_HA1_HDB00.ip 192.168.22.22
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Using Dynamic DNS for moving the HANA IP address between regions.
.PP
.\" TODO
It might be that the same IP address should be used at both regions. Usually the
IP address is managed by the IPaddr2 RA, sometimes together with a loadbalancer.
If this is not possible across regions, Dynamic DNS might be an option. For details
please refer to manual page ocf_heartbeat_dnsupdate(7).
.\" SUSE support KB article
.\" "SAPHanaSR HANA system replication automation without layer 2 network".
.PP
\fB*\fP Backing up first DR node and enabling system replication.
.PP
Needs to be done at first DR node, before registering another node.
First DR site is site3, SID is HA1, instance number is 00.
.PP
.RS 2
# su - ha1adm
.br
~> hdbsql -i 00 -u SYSTEM -d SYSTEMDB \\
.br
 "BACKUP DATA FOR FULL SYSTEM USING FILE ('backup')"
.br
~> hdbnsutil -sr_enable --name=site3
.br
~> hdbnsutil -sr_state
.RE
.PP
.\"
.SH FILES
.\"
.TP
/hana/shared/$SID/global/hdb/custom/config/global.ini
on-disk representation of HANA global system configuration.
.TP
/usr/sap/$SID/SYS/global/security/rsecssfs/
HANA database secure keystore directory.
.PP
.\"
.SH REQUIREMENTS
.\"
See REQUIREMENTS section in manual page SAPHanaSR_with_DR_HA(7) and SAPHanaSR-angi(7).
.PP
.\"
.SH BUGS
.\"
In case of any problem, please use your favourite SAP support process to open
a request for the component BC-OP-LNX-SUSE.
.\" TODO Please report any other feedback and suggestions to feedback@suse.com.
.PP
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.\"
\fBSAPHanaSR-angi\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR-angi-scenarios\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR\fP(7) , 
\fBSAPHanaSR_multi-target\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR_with_DR_HA\fP(7) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR_basic_cluster\fP(7) , \fBocf_suse_SAPHanaController\fP(7) ,
\fBsusHanaSR.py\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR_maintenance_examples\fP(7) ,
.br
https://documentation.suse.com/sbp/sap/
.PP
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
.\"
A.Briel, F.Herschel, L.Pinne.
.PP
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.\"
(c) 2026 SUSE LLC
.br
The package SAPHanaSR-angi comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
.br
For details see the GNU General Public License at
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"




