.\" Version: 0.155.0
.\"
.TH SAPHanaSrCostOptMemConfig.py 7 "15 Apr 2022" "" "SAPHanaSR"
.\"
.SH NAME
SAPHanaSrCostOptMemConfig.py \- Provider for SAP HANA srHook method postTakeover().
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
SAPHanaSrCostOptMemConfig.py can be used to provide a script for the SAP HANA
srHook method postTakeover().

The SAP HANA nameserver provides a Python-based API ("HA/DR providers"), which 
is called at important points of the host auto-failover and system replication
takeover processes. These so called hooks can be used for arbitrary operations
that need to be executed. The method postTakeover() is called after successful
sr_takeover action.

SAPHanaSrCostOptMemConfig.py executes SQL statements to remove the memory
allocation limit and switches off HANA column table preload after take-over
from primary to secondary site in an SAP HANA scale-up cost-optimized scenario.

This hook script needs to be configured and activated on the secondary node.
.PP
.\"
.SH SUPPORTED PARAMETERS
The "HA/DR providers" API accepts the following parameters for the 
ha_dr_provider_saphanasrcostoptmemconfig section:
.TP
\fBprovider = SAPHanaSrCostOptMemConfig\fP
Mandatory. Must not be changed.
.TP
\fBpath = /usr/share/SAPHanaSR\fP
Mandatory. Please change only if requested.
.TP
\fBcostopt_primary_global_allocation_limit = [ 0 | <limit-in-mb> ]\fP
Optional. Not set or set to 0 means unlimited.
.TP
\fBuserkey = <costoptkey>\fP
Optional. Default is saphanasr_<SID>_costopt.
.TP
\fBexecution_order = 2\fP
Mandatory. Needs to run after SAPHanaSR.py.
.PP
The "HA/DR providers" API accepts the following parameter for the trace section:
.TP
\fBha_dr_saphanasrcostoptmemconfig = [ info | debug ]\fP
Optional. Will be added automatically if not set.
.PP
.\"
.SH RETURN CODES
.B 0
Successful program execution.
.br
.B >0
Usage, syntax or execution errors.
.PP
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
* Example for entry in SAP HANA global configuration
/hana/shared/$SID/global/hdb/custom/config/global.ini .
.br
The section ha_dr_provider_saphanasrcostoptmemconfig is needed on the secondary
site only. Additional settings in sections memorymanager and system_replication on secondary site are needed for the cost-optimised scenario. The example SID is HA1, memory limit is 32000MB in case of running as HANA primary. 
The HANA has to be stopped before the files can be edited.
.PP
.RS 2
[memorymanager]
.br
global_allocation_limit = 24000

.PP
[system_replication]
.br
preload_column_tables = false
.br
 \.\.\.

.PP
[ha_dr_provider_saphanasrcostoptmemconfig]
.br
provider = SAPHanaSrCostOptMemConfig
.br
path = /usr/share/SAPHanaSR
.br
userkey = saphanasr_HA1_costopt
.br
costopt_primary_global_allocation_limit = 32000
.br
execution_order = 2

.PP
[trace]
.br
ha_dr_saphanasrcostoptmemconfig = info
 \.\.\.
.RE
.PP
* Example for checking the HANA tracefiles for postTakeover() events.
.br
To be executed on HANA secondary site.
.PP
.RS 2
# su - ha1adm
.br
~> cdtrace
.br
~> grep SAPHanaSrC.*postTakeover nameserver_*.trc
.RE
.PP
* Example for checking the HANA tracefiles for when the hook script has been loaded.
.br
To be executed on HANA secondary site.
.PP
.RS 2
# su - ha1adm
.br
~> cdtrace
.br
~> grep HADR.*load.*SAPHanaSrC nameserver_*.trc
.br
~> grep SAPHanaSrCostOptMemConfig.init nameserver_*.trc
.RE
.PP
* Example for adding the HANA database user to <sid>adm´s keystore.
.br
The HANA database user SYSTEM has permission to change memory limit and column
pre-load. For security reasons on production systems always a dedicated user
with restricted permission needs to be created.
The keystore for <sid>adm has to be created on secondary site.
The example SID is HA1, lowercase-SID is ha1, instance number is 10,
TCP port for database access is 31013, database user is SYSTEM,
userkey in keystore is saphanasr_HA1_costopt, final password is SuSE1234.
Please refer to SAP documentation for details on HANA commands.
.PP
.RS 2
# su - ha1adm
.br
~> hdbuserstore SET saphanasr_HA1_costopt localhost:31013 SYSTEM SuSE1234
.br
~> hdbuserstore LIST saphanasr_HA1_costopt
.RE
.PP
* Overview on procedure for reverting to normal operation after take-over
.\" .br
.\" TODO description
.PP
.RS 2
1. set msl_... resource into maintenance
.br
2. site_A: register former primary as new secondary
.br
3. site_A: start new secondary, and wait for SR sync to finish
.br
4. site_B: stop primary
.br
5. site_A: do sr_takeover on secondary
.br
6. site_B: adapt global.ini on stopped former primary
.br
7. site_B: register former primary as new secondary
.br
8. site_B: start new secondary, and wait for SR sync to finish
.br
9. refresh msl_... resource
.br
10. take msl_... resource out of maintenance
.RE
.PP
.\"
.SH FILES
.TP
/usr/share/SAPHanaSR/SAPHanaSrCostOptMemConfig.py
 the hook provider, delivered with the RPM
.TP
/hana/shared/$SID/global/hdb/custom/config/global.ini
 the on-disk representation of HANA global system configuration
.\" TODO HANA <sid>adm keystore for costoptkey
.TP
/usr/sap/$SID/HDB$nr/$HOST/trace
 path to HANA trace files
.PP
.\"
.SH REQUIREMENTS 
1. SAP HANA 2.0 SPS04 or later provides the HA/DR provider hook method postTakeover().
.PP
2. The hook provider needs to be added to the HANA global configuration
on the secondary site, in memory and on disk (in persistence).
.PP
3. An HANA database user with permission for changing memory limit and table preload needs to be added to <sid>adm´s keystore on the secondary site.
.PP
4. If the hook provider should be pre-compiled, the particular Python version
that comes with SAP HANA has to be used.
.\"
.SH BUGS
In case of any problem, please use your favourite SAP support process to open
a request for the component BC-OP-LNX-SUSE.
Please report any other feedback and suggestions to feedback@suse.com.
.PP
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBSAPHanaSR\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR.py\fP(7) ,
\fBocf_suse_SAPHanaTopology\fP(7) , \fBocf_suse_SAPHana\fP(7) ,
\fBocf_heartbeat_SAPInstance\fP(7) , \fBpython3\fP(8) ,
.br
https://help.sap.com/docs/SAP_HANA_PLATFORM?locale=en-US
.br
https://help.sap.com/docs/SAP_HANA_PLATFORM/6b94445c94ae495c83a19646e7c3fd56/5df2e766549a405e95de4c5d7f2efc2d.html?locale=en-US
.PP
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
A.Briel, F.Herschel, L.Pinne.
.PP
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
(c) 2022 SUSE LLC
.br
SAPHanaSrCostOptMemConfig.py comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
.br
For details see the GNU General Public License at
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
