.\" Version: 0.155.0
.\"
.TH SAPHanaSrTakeoverBlocker.py 7 "15 Apr 2022" "" "SAPHanaSR"
.\"
.SH NAME
SAPHanaSrTakeoverBlocker.py \- Provider for SAP HANA srHook method preTakeover().
.PP
.\"
.\" .SH SYNOPSYS
.\" \fBSAPHanaSrTakeoverBlocker.py\fP
.\" .PP
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
SAPHanaSrTakeoverBlocker.py can be used to provide a script for the SAP HANA srHook method preTakeover().

The SAP HANA nameserver provides a Python-based API ("HA/DR providers"), which 
is called at important points of the host auto-failover and system replication 
takeover process. These so called hooks can be used for arbitrary operations that
need to be executed. The method preTakeover() is called before the sr_takeover
action.

SAPHanaSrTakeoverBlocker.py allows manual take-over of the HANA primary if the
SAP HANA mulit-state resource (managed by SAPHana or SAPHanaController) is set
into maintainance. Otherwise the manual take-over is blocked.
.PP
.\"
.SH SUPPORTED PARAMETERS

a. HANA global.ini parameters

The "HA/DR providers" API accepts the following parameters for the 
ha_dr_provider_saphanasrtakeoverblocker section:
.TP
\fBprovider = SAPHanaSrTakeoverBlocker\fP
.TP
\fBpath = [ /usr/share/SAPHanaSR | /usr/share/SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut ]\fP
.TP
\fBexecution_order = 1\fP
.PP
The "HA/DR providers" API accepts the following parameter for the trace section:
.TP
\fBha_dr_saphanasrtakeoverblocker = [ info | debug ]\fP
.PP

b. Linux cluster information base CIB attributes
 
The SAPHanaController and SAPHana RAs are recognizing the pending take-over
request via the following cluster attribute:
.TP
\fBsra = [ T | R | - ]\fP
.PP
HANA system replication takeover action, indicated by preTakeover()
.PP
The node attribute system replication action is se  by the HA/DR provider API
method preTakeover(). It indicates whether a take-over or registration is
ongoing. The attribute is not updated if the cluster is not running.
.br
T = Take-over on new primary (sr_takeover) ongoing.
.br
R = Registration on new secondary (sr_register) ongoing.
.br
- = No action pending.
.PP
.\"
.SH RETURN CODES
.B 0
Successful program execution.
.br
.B >0
Usage, syntax or execution errors.
.PP
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
* Example for entry in sudo permissions /etc/sudoers
.PP
.RS 4
# SAPHanaSR and SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut need for srHook
.br
ha1adm ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: TODO 
.RE
.PP
* Example for looking up the sudo permission for the srHook script.
.br
All related files (/etc/sudoers and /etc/sudoers.d/*) are scanned.
Example SID is HA1.
.PP
.RS 2
# sudo -U ha1adm -l | grep "NOPASSWD.*TODO" 
.RE
.PP
* Example for entry in SAP HANA scale-up global configuration
/hana/shared/$SID/global/hdb/custom/config/global.ini
.br
This file is needed at both sites. The HANA has to be stopped before the files
can be edited.
.PP
.RS 4
[ha_dr_provider_saphanasrtakeoverblocker]
.br
provider = SAPHanaSrTakeoverBlocker
.br
path = /usr/share/SAPHanaSR
.br
execution_order = 1
.br
[trace]
.br
ha_dr_saphanasrtakeoverblocker = info
.RE
.PP
* Example for entry in SAP HANA scale-out global configuration
/hana/shared/$SID/global/hdb/custom/config/global.ini
.br
This file is needed at both sites. The HANA has to be stopped before the files
can be edited.
.PP
.RS 4
[ha_dr_provider_saphanasrtakeoverblocker]
.br
provider = SAPHanaSrTakeoverBlocker
.br
path = /usr/share/SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut
.br
execution_order = 1
.br
[trace]
.br
ha_dr_saphanasrtakeoverblocker = info
.RE
.PP
* Example for checking the system log for srHook setting HANA system replication status in the CIB properties section. To be executed on respective HANA primary site's master nameserver.
.PP
.RS 2
# grep "sudo.*TODO" /var/log/messages
.RE
.PP
* Example for checking the HANA tracefiles for preTakeover() events. To be executed on respective HANA primary site's master nameserver.
.PP
.RS 2
# su - sleadm
.br
~> cdtrace
.br
~> grep SAPHana.*preTakeover.*called nameserver_*.trc
.br
~> grep TODO nameserver_*.trc
.br
# exit
.RE
.PP
* Example for checking the HANA tracefiles for when the hook script has been loaded. To be executed on both site's master nameservers.
.PP
.RS 2
# su - sleadm
.br
~> cdtrace
.br
~> grep HADR.*load.*SAPHanaS nameserver_*.trc
.RE
.PP
.\"
.SH FILES
.TP
/usr/share/SAPHanaSR/SAPHanaSrTakeoverBlocker.py , /usr/share/SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut/SAPHanaSrTakeoverBlocker.py
 the hook provider, delivered with the RPM
.TP
/hana/shared/$SID/global/hdb/custom/config/global.ini
 the on-disk representation of HANA global system configuration
.TP
/etc/sudoers , /etc/sudoers.d/*
 the sudo permissions configuration
.TP
/usr/sap/$sid/HDB$nr/$host/trace/nameserver_$vhost.3????.???.trc
 the HANA master nameserver trace file
.PP
.\"
.SH REQUIREMENTS 
1. SAP HANA 2.0 SPS06 or later provides the HA/DR provider hook method
preTakeover() with multi-target aware parameters and separate return code
for Linux HA clusters.
.PP
2. The user ${sid}adm needs execution permission as user root for the command 
TODO. 
.PP
3. The hook provider needs to be added to the HANA global configuration,
in memory and on disk (in persistence).
.PP
4. If the hook provider should be pre-compiled, the particular Python version
that comes with SAP HANA has to be used.
.\"
.SH BUGS
In case of any problem, please use your favourite SAP support process to open
a request for the component BC-OP-LNX-SUSE.
Please report any other feedback and suggestions to feedback@suse.com.
.PP
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBSAPHanaSR\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR-ScaleOut\fP(7) , 
\fBSAPHanaSR.py\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSrMultiTarget.py\fP(7) ,
\fBocf_suse_SAPHanaTopology\fP(7) , \fBocf_suse_SAPHana\fP(7) ,
\fBocf_suse_SAPHanaController\fP(7) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR-monitor\fP(8) , \fBSAPHanaSR-showAttr\fP(8) ,
\fBcrm_attribute\fP(8) , \fBsudo\fP(8) , \fBsudoers\fP(5), \fBpython3\fP(8) ,
.\" TODO helper script
.br
https://help.sap.com/docs/SAP_HANA_PLATFORM?locale=en-US
.br
https://help.sap.com/docs/SAP_HANA_PLATFORM/6b94445c94ae495c83a19646e7c3fd56/5df2e766549a405e95de4c5d7f2efc2d.html?locale=en-US
.PP
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
A.Briel, F.Herschel, L.Pinne.
.PP
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
(c) 2022 SUSE LLC
.br
SAPHanaSrTakeoverBlocker.py comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
.br
For details see the GNU General Public License at
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
