.\" Version: 1.001
.\"
.TH SAPHanaSR 7 "08 May 2023" "" "SAPHanaSR-angi"
.\"
.SH NAME
SAPHanaSR-angi \- SAP HANA SR - Advanced Next Generation Interface.
.PP
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"
\fBOverview\fR
.PP
The SAPHanaSR-angi package provides resource agents (RA), HA/DR provider hook
scripts and tools for setting up and managing automation of SAP HANA system
replication (SR) in scale-up and scale-out setups.
.PP
.B SAPHanaSR-angi is shipped as technology preview.
.PP
Note: The SAPHanaSR-angi package is not compatible to packages SAPHanaSR and
SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut.
.PP
.\"
.SH REQUIREMENTS
.PP
For the current version of the package SAPHanaSR-angi, the capabilities are
limited to the following scenarios and parameters:
.PP
1. HANA scale-up and scale-out clusters with system replication. The two HANA
database systems (primary and secondary site) are managed by one Linux cluster.
.PP
2. Technical users and groups such as sidadm are defined locally in the
Linux system. If users are resolved by remote service, local caching is
neccessary. Substitute user (su) to sidadm needs to work reliable and without
customized actions or messages. Supported shell is bash.
.PP
3. Strict time synchronization between the cluster nodes, e.g. NTP.
.PP
4. The following SAP HANA SR scenarios are possible with the
SAPHanaSR-angi package:
.br
	4.11 scale-up performance-optimized (memory preload on secondary)
.br
	4.12 scale-up cost-optimized (e.g. with QA on secondary)
.br
	4.13 scale-up multi-tier or multi-target, 3rd site outside
.br
	4.14 scale-up single-tenant or multi-tenant (MDC) for all of the above
.br
	4.15 scale-up active/read-enabled
.br
	4.16 scale-up multiple independent HANA SR pairs (MCOS) in one cluster
.br
	Note: For MCOS, there must be no constraints between HANA SR pairs.
.br
	4.21 scale-out performance-optimized with standby nodes
.br
	4.22 scale-out performance-optimized without standby nodes
.br
	4.23 scale-out multi-tier or multi-target, 3rd site outside
.br
	4.24 scale-out single-tenant or multi-tenant (MDC) for all of the above
.br
	4.25 scale-out active/read-enabled for two-node sites
.PP
5. Only one system replication between the two SAP HANA database in the Linux
cluster. Maximum one system replication to an HANA database outside the Linux
cluster.
.PP
6. The replication mode is either sync or syncmem for the controlled replication.
Replication mode async is not supported. The operation modes delta_datashipping,
logreplay and logreplay_readaccess are supported.
.PP
7. Both SAP HANA database systems have the same SAP Identifier (SID) and
Instance Number (INO).
.PP
8. Besides SAP HANA you need SAP hostagent installed and started on your system.
For SystemV style, the sapinit script needs to be active.
For systemd style, the services saphostagent and SAP${SID}_${INO} can stay enabled. The systemd enabled saphostagent and instance´s sapstartsrv is supported from SAPHanaSR 0.155 onwards. Please refer to the OS documentation for the systemd version. Please refer to SAP documentation for the SAP HANA version.
Combining systemd style hostagent with SystemV style instance is allowed.
However, all nodes in one Linux cluster have to use the same style.
.PP
9. Automated start of SAP HANA database systems during system boot must be switched
off.
.PP
10. The RA's monitoring operations have to be active.
.PP
11. Using HA/DR provider hook for srConnectionChanged() by enabling susHanaSR.py
 or susHanaSrMultiTarget.py is mandatory.
.PP
12. For scale-up and scale-out the current resource agent supports SAP HANA in
system replication beginning with HANA version 2.0 SPS 05.
.PP
13. Colocation constraints between the SAPHanaController RA and
other resources are allowed only if they do not affect the RA's scoring.
The location scoring finally depends on system replication status an must not
be over-ruled by additional constraints. Thus it is not allowed to define rules
forcing a SAPHanaController resource to follow another resource.
.PP
14. The Linux cluster needs to be up and running to allow HA/DR provider events
being written into CIB attributes. The current HANA SR status might differ
from CIB srHook attribute after cluster maintenance.
.PP
15. Once an HANA system replication site is known to the Linux cluster, that
exact site name has to be used whenever the site is registered manually.
.PP
16. Reliable access to the /hana/shared/ filesystem is crucial for HANA and the
Linux cluster.
.PP
17. HANA feature Secondary Time Travel is not supported.
.PP
18. In MDC configurations the HANA database is treated as a single system
including all database containers. Therefore, cluster takeover decisions are
based on the complete status independent of the status of individual containers.
.PP
19. If a third HANA site is connected by system replication, that HANA is not
controlled by another SUSE HA cluster. If that third site should work as part
of a fall-back HA cluster in DR case, that HA cluster needs to be in standby.
.PP
20. RA and srHook runtime almost completely depends on call-outs to controlled
resources, OS and Linux cluster. The infrastructure needs to allow these
call-outs to return in time.
.PP
21. The SAP HANA Fast Restart feature on RAM-tmfps as well as HANA on persistent
memory can be used, as long as they are transparent to SUSE HA.
.PP
22. The SAP HANA site name is from 2 up to 32 characters long. It starts with a
character or number. Subsequent characters may contain dash and underscore.
.PP
23. The SAPHanaController RA, the SUSE HA cluster and several SAP components
need read/write access and sufficient space in the Linux /tmp filesystem.
.PP
24. CIB attributes are not backward compatible between SAPHanaSR-angi and
the former SAPHanaSR or SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut. So there is currently no easy migration path.
.PP
More information on specific requirements of Linux HA scenarios for SAP HANA SR
scale-up and scale-out setups are described in the REQUIREMENTS section of
SAPHanaSR(7) and SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut(7).
.\"
.SH BUGS
.\" TODO
In case of any problem, please use your favourite SAP support process to open
a request for the component BC-OP-LNX-SUSE.
Please report any other feedback and suggestions to feedback@suse.com.
.PP
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBSAPHanaSR\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR-ScaleOut\fP(7) ,
\fBocf_suse_SAPHanaTopology\fP(7) , \fBocf_suse_SAPHanaController\fP(7) ,
\fBocf_heartbeat_IPaddr2\fP(7) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR_basic_cluster\fP(7) ,
\fBsusHanaSR.py\fP(7) , \fBsusHanaSrMultiTarget.py\fP(7) ,
\fBsusCostOpt.py\fP(7) , \fBsusTkOver.py\fP(7) , \fBsusChkSrv.py\fP (7) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR-monitor\fP(8) , \fBSAPHanaSR-showAttr\fP(8) ,
\fBntp.conf\fP(5) , \fBchrony.conf\fP(5) , \fBsystemctl\fP(1) ,
\fBstonith\fP(8) , \fBsbd\fP(8) , \fBstonith_sbd\fP(7) , \fBstonith_admin\fP(8) ,
\fBcrm\fP(8) , \fBcorosync.conf\fP(5) , \fBcrm_no_quorum_policy\fP(7) ,
\fBsaptune\fP(8) , \fBcs_show_hana_info\fP(8) , \fBsupportconfig\fP(8) ,
.br
https://documentation.suse.com/sbp/sap/ ,
.br
https://documentation.suse.com/sles-sap/ ,
.br
https://www.suse.com/releasenotes/ ,
.br
https://www.susecon.com/doc/2015/sessions/TUT19921.pdf ,
.br
https://www.susecon.com/doc/2016/sessions/TUT90846.pdf ,
.br
https://www.suse.com/media/presentation/TUT90846_towards_zero_downtime%20_how_to_maintain_sap_hana_system_replication_clusters.pdf ,
.br
http://scn.sap.com/community/hana-in-memory/blog/2014/04/04/fail-safe-operation-of-sap-hana-suse-extends-its-high-availability-solution ,
.br
http://scn.sap.com/docs/DOC-60334 ,
.br
http://scn.sap.com/community/hana-in-memory/blog/2015/12/14/sap-hana-sps-11-whats-new-ha-and-dr--by-the-sap-hana-academy ,
.br
https://wiki.scn.sap.com/wiki/display/ATopics/HOW+TO+SET+UP+SAPHanaSR+IN+THE+COST+OPTIMIZED+SAP+HANA+SR+SCENARIO+-+PART+I
.br
https://blogs.sap.com/2020/01/30/sap-hana-and-persistent-memory/
.PP
.SH AUTHORS
.br
A.Briel, F.Herschel, L.Pinne.
.PP
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.br
(c) 2022-2023 SUSE LLC
.br
The package SAPHanaSR-angi comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
.br
For details see the GNU General Public License at
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
