.\" Version: 1.2 
.\"
.TH SAPHanaSR_with_DR_HA 7 "12 Feb 2026" "- DRAFT -" "SAPHanaSR-angi"
.\"
.SH NAME
. \"
SAPHanaSR_with_DR_HA \- SAPHanaSR with HA cluster at DR region.
.PP
- DRAFT -
.PP
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"
\fB*\fP Overview
.PP
.\" TODO
Two HANA system replication pairs are connected by a third HANA system replication.
Each pair is configured as Linux cluster for the scale-up performance-optimised
scenario. The first pair is running reguarly as production region (site1, site2).
The second pair is running in DR mode (site3, site4).
.PP
The first site of the DR region (site3) is registered to the primary of the
production region (site1). The replication to DR region is async. The second
site of the DR region (site4) is registered to the first site of the DR region
(site3), this replication is sync or syncmem.
.PP
The described topology can be noted as
.PP
 [ site2 <= site1' ] -> { site3 => site4 }
.PP
Please refer to manual page SAPHanaSR-angi-scenarios(7) for the scenario notation.
.PP
The Linux clusters have no control over HANA system replication between the
production region and the DR region. The takeover from production region to
the DR region has to be decided and carried out manually.
.\" TODO RPO ?
.\" TODO IP address ?
Please see also the REQUIREMENTS section below.
.PP
.B The SAPHanaSR with HA cluster at DR region scenario is a technology preview.
.PP
\fB*\fP DR mode 
.PP
The DR region is almost a Linux cluster for the scale-up performance-optimised
scenario. But there is no HANA primary site. Instead of the primary, the DR site
(site3) that is registred to the production primary acts as replication source
for the DR secondary (site4).
.PP
Since there is no primary site, the SAPHanaController RA needs to run in DR mode.
That is done by setting "PREFER_SITE_TAKEOVER=DR". In DR mode, the cluster will
start, stop and monitor the SAPHanaController multi-state resource. But the cluster
will not do a takeover from one DR node to the other.
However, by monitoring resources and initiating local restart, the Linux cluster
is able to recover from certain failures by restoring the former state.
Please refer to manual page ocf_suse_SAPHanaController(7) for details.
.PP
In DR mode, some cluster attributes are looking different from the regular mode.
.RS 2
.B lpt
- shows 30 for both sites, if all is fine.
.br
.B srHook
- shows SWAIT for the DR site attached to production by async replication.
It shows SOK for the second DR site, if all is fine. 
The second DR site shows SFAIL, if the first DR site looses the link to production
primary.
The second DR site recovers to SOK, if first DR site gets back the link to
production primary.
PRIM is shown for the production primary. Two PRIM sites are indicating a takeover
at production.
.br
.B srMode
- shows async for the replication from production.
.br
.B srPoll
- shows DR for both DR sites.
.br
.B srr
- shows S for both sites, if all is fine.
.br
.B clone_state
- shows DEMOTED for both sites, if all is fine.
.br
.B score
- shows a negative value. 
.RE
See also manual page SAPHanaSR-showAttr(8).
.PP
Optionally, the same production IP address can be used in both regions. It will
be set only on sites of the production region. As long as a cluster is running in
DR mode, it will not set the IP address. Of course, the infrastructure needs to
allow moving IP address between regions. 
.PP
Last but not least, the Linux cluster in DR mode allows manual procedures for DR
takeover in case of disaster at production region and regular switch of roles
between regions. Details are given in the EXAMPLES section below.
.PP
\fB*\fP Setup procedure
.PP
.\" TODO
The two clusters could be set up and connected by different procedures:
.PP
a. Set up HANA and Linux clusters in both regions separately. Test both regions
in production mode before connecting them. Test takeover, re-register and DR mode
after both regions are connected. This procedure is outlined as example below.
This is the recommended setup procedure. 
.PP
b. Set up HANA and Linux clusters in production region. Connect HANA DR site (or 
region) without Linux cluster there. Test production region.
Install cluster at DR region in DR mode. Test takeover.
.\" TODO Test production mode again.
Test re-register and DR mode. This procedure is possible, but not recommended.
See manual pages SAPHanaSR(7), SAPHanaController-scale-up(7), susHanaSR.py(7),
SAPHanaSR_basic_cluster(7), SAPHanaSR_multi-target(7), et al.
.PP
\fB*\fP Maintenance procedures
.PP
.\" TODO
.PP
Three procedures are specific for the two connected HANA system replication pairs.
.PP
a. Procedure for taking over HANA to DR region in case of disaster.
.RS 2
* Collect information and prepare parameter sheet.
.br
* Ensure both sites of the production region (site1, site2) are not running.
.br
* Decide to takeover HANA primary to third site (site3).
.br
* Perform HANA takeover at third site (site3).
.br
* Change SAPHanaController to "PREFER_SITE_TAKEOVER=yes".
.br
* Refresh SAPHanaController multi-state resource.
.br
* Get SAPHanaController multi-state resource out of maintenance.
.br
* Check that everything looks fine.
.RE
This procedure is outlined as example below. 
.PP
b. Procedure for registering former production HANA as new DR.
.RS 2
* Collect information and prepare parameter sheet.
.br
* Start Linux cluster on first DR site only (node1).
.br
* Set SAPHanaController multi-state resource into maintenance.
.br
* Change SAPHanaController to "PREFER_SITE_TAKEOVER=DR".
.br
* Start Linux cluster on second DR site (node2).
.br
* Register first DR site (node1) as secondary to current primary (node3)
.br
* Start HANA at first DR site (node1).
.br
* Enable system replication at first DR site (node1).
.br
* Register second DR site (node2) as secondary to first DR site (node1).
.br
* Refresh SAPHanaController multi-state resource.
.br
* Get SAPHanaController multi-state resource out of maintenance.
.br
* Check that everything looks fine.
.RE
This procedure is outlined as example below.
.PP
c. Procedure for switching HANA production and DR region, keep HANA running.
.br
This might be done for regular maintenance procedures.
Top-Level procedure is:
.br
.RS 2
Phase 1: Production is still up.
.RS 2
* set multi-state resource to maintenance in both regions
(2.1, 3.1)
.br
* stop secondary in production (HA) region
(2.4)
.RE
.RS2
Phase 2: Production is down.
.RS 2
* manually takeover to current DR region (3rd site) with suspend primary
(3.2)
.br
* mark new DR as DR region and refresh multi-state resource
(IP address goes down) (2.2, 2.3 )
.br
* mark new production (HA) as HA region and refresh multi-state resource
(IP address goes up) (3.3, 3.4)
.RE
Phase 3: Production is up again.
.RS 2
* register former production (HA) primary as DR secondary
(async, 3rd site) (4.1)
.br
* register former production (HA) secondary as secondary
(sync/syncmem, 4th site) (NONO)
.br
* refresh multi-state resource in both regions
(3.4, 4.2)
.br
* end maintenance in both regions
(3.5, 4.3)
.RE
Phase 4: Production is up, regions HA- and DR-function available again.
.RE
.br
A procedure with optimised workflow is outlined as example below.
.PP
General maintenance procedures for the production region can be found in manual
page SAPHanaSR_maintenance_examples(7).
.PP
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.\"
The examples are outlining highlevel procedures as well as describing basic tasks.
Detailled runbooks can be created by using the appropriate tasks for adding details
to the procedures.
.\" TODO disclaimer, particularly on takeover decision for async replication.
More examples, not specific to HA cluster at DR region, can be found in manual
page SAPHanaSR_maintenance_examples(7).
.PP
\fB*\fP Procedure for setting up HANA and Linux clusters in both regions.
.PP
Set up HANA and Linux clusters in both regions separately. Test both regions in
production role before connecting them. Test takeover and DR role after both are
connected.
.PP
.RS 2
1. Collect information and prepare parameter sheet.
.PP
2. Install SAPHanaSR-angi scale-up performance-optimised scenario at production
region (site1, site2).
.RS 4
See manual pages SAPHanaSR(7), SAPHanaController-scale-up(7), susHanaSR.py(7),
SAPHanaSR_basic_cluster(7), et al.
.RE
.PP
3. Check that everything works fine at production region (site1, site2).
.PP
4. Install SAPHanaSR-angi scale-up performance-optimised scenario at DR region
(site3, site4).
.RS 4
See manual pages SAPHanaSR(7), SAPHanaController-scale-up(7), susHanaSR.py(7),
SAPHanaSR_basic_cluster(7), et al.
Please do not use the same IP address at both regions during installation. 
.RE
.PP
5. Check that everything works fine at DR region (site3, site4).
.PP
6. Copy HANA secure keystore from production primary (site1) to DR nodes.
(site3, site4).
.RS 4
See example "Copying HANA secure keystore from production primary to nodes at DR region."
.RE
.PP
7. Add DR specific colocation constraint for IPaddr2 to both clusters.
.RS 4
See example "Preventing IPaddr2 from starting at DR sites."
.RE
.PP
8. Stop Linux cluster and HANA at DR region (site3, site4).
.PP
9. Register DR region (site3, site4) to production region (site1, site2).
.RS 4
See example "Procedure for registering former production HANA as new DR."
Of course, in that example the regions are exchanged. So, make sure to use
(site1, site2) instead of (site3, site4) and vice versa. 
.RE
.PP
10. Change IP address at DR region (site3, site4) to match production - optional.
.PP
11. Check that everything works fine.
.RE
.PP
Please see also the REQUIREMENTS section below.
.PP
\fB*\fP Procedure for taking over HANA to DR region in case of disaster.
.PP
This might be done if both sites of the production region went down and not
expected to recover in time. It will re-establish production service.
.PP
.\" TODO
Cluster is up and running in DR mode on DR region nodes, HANA is up and running
in DR mode there as well.
SAPHanaController parameter "PREFER_SITE_TAKEOVER=DR" is set.
All site names have to be same as already known to the cluster.
Example for scale-up.
Make sure to check for sane and idle status of Linux cluster and HANA before and
after each step.
.\" TODO RPO RTO ?
Details on how to perform the steps can be found in additional examples below
and in manual page SAPHanaSR_maintenance_examples(7). See also SAP note 2517805.
SID is HA1, instance number is 00.
.PP
.RS 2
site1, node1: former production primary, currently down
.br
site2, node2: former production secondary, currently down
.br
site3, node3: current first DR replication target, to become production primary
.br
site4, node4: current second DR replication target, to become production secondary
.RE
.PP
Note: Understand the impact before trying.
.PP
.RS 2
1. Collect information and prepare parameter sheet.
.PP
2. Ensure both sites of the production region (site1, site2) are not running.
.PP
3. Decide to takeover HANA primary to third site (site3).
.PP
.B The next steps will invalidate all HANA data at former production sites (site1, site2).
.PP
4. Set SAPHanaController multi-state resource into maintenance. 
.RS 4
node3 # crm resource maintenance mst_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00
.RE
.PP
5. Perform HANA takeover at third site (site3).
.RS 4
node3 # su - ha1adm -c "hdbnsutil -sr_takeover"
.br
node3 # su - ha1adm -c "cdpy; python systemReplicationStatus.py; echo rc:\\$?"
.RE
.PP
6. Change SAPHanaController to "PREFER_SITE_TAKEOVER=yes".
.RS 4
node3 # crm configure set rsc_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00.PREFER_SITE_TAKEOVER yes
.br
node3 # crm configure show rsc_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00 | grep PREFER_SITE_TAKEOVER
.RE
.PP
7. Refresh SAPHanaController multi-state resource.
.RS 4
node3 # crm resource refresh mst_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00
.RE
.PP
8. Get SAPHanaController multi-state resource out of maintenance.
.RS 4
node3 # crm resource maintenance mst_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00 off
.RE
.PP
9. Check that everything looks fine.
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Procedure for registering former production HANA as new DR.
.PP
This might be done, if both sites (or at least one) of the former production
sites have been recovered after an outage. It will re-establish DR redundancy.
.PP
\" TODO
At all nodes the automatic start of cluster at boot has to be disabled.
If automatic start is not disabled, additional measures have to be taken.
All site names have to be same as already known to the cluster.
Example for scale-up.
Details on how to perform the steps can be found in additional examples below
and in manual page SAPHanaSR_maintenance_examples(7).
SID is HA1, instance number is 00.
.PP
.RS 2
site1, node1: currently idle, to become first DR replication target
.br
site2, node2: currently idle, to become second DR replication target
.br
site3, node3: production primary
.br
site4, node4: production secondary
.RE
.PP
Note: Understand the impact before trying.
.PP
.RS 2
1. Collect information and prepare parameter sheet.
.PP
2. Start Linux cluster on first DR site \fBonly\fP (node1).
.RS 4
node1 # crm cluster start
.RE
.PP
3. Set SAPHanaController multi-state resource into maintenance.
.RS 4
node1 # crm resource maintenance mst_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00
.RE
.PP
4. Change SAPHanaController to "PREFER_SITE_TAKEOVER=DR".
.RS 4
node1 # crm configure set rsc_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00.PREFER_SITE_TAKEOVER DR
.br
node1 # crm configure show rsc_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00 | grep PREFER_SITE_TAKEOVER
.RE
.PP
5. Start Linux cluster on second DR site (node2).
.RS 4
node1 # crm cluster start --all
.RE
.PP
.B The next steps will overwrite all HANA data at former production sites (site1, site2).
.PP
6. Register first DR site (node1) as secondary to current primary (node3).
.RS 4
node1 # su - ha1adm
.br
node1 ~> hdbnsutil -sr_register --remoteHost=node3 --remoteInstance=00 \\
.br
 --replicationMode=async --operationMode=logreplay \\
.br
 --force_full_replica --name=site1
.br
node1 ~> exit
.RE
.PP
7. Start HANA at first DR site (node1).
.RS 4
node1 # su - ha1adm -c "HDB start"
.RE
.PP
8. Enable system replication at first DR site (node1).
.RS 4
node1 # su - ha1adm -c "hdbnsutil -sr_enable"
.RE
.PP
9. Register second DR site (node2) as secondary to first DR site (node1).
.RS 4
node2 # su - ha1adm
.br
node2 ~> hdbnsutil -sr_register --remoteHost=node1 --remoteInstance=00 \\
.br
 --replicationMode=syncmem --operationMode=logreplay \\
.br
 --force_full_replica --name=site2
.br
node2 ~> exit
.RE
.PP
10. Refresh SAPHanaController multi-state resource.
.RS 4
node2 # crm resource refresh mst_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00
.RE
.PP
11. Get SAPHanaController multi-state resource out of maintenance.
.RS 4
node2 # crm resource maintenance mst_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00 off
.RE
.PP
12. Check that everything looks fine.
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Procedure for switching HANA production and DR region, keep HANA running.
.PP
This might be done for regular maintenance procedures.
\" TODO
Third site is up and running with system replication enabled.
All site names have to be same as already known to the cluster.
Example for scale-up.
Details on how to perform the steps can be found in additional examples below
and in manual page SAPHanaSR_maintenance_examples(7).
SID is HA1, instance number is 00.
.PP
.RS 2
site1, node1: current production primary, to become first DR replication target
.br
site2, node2: current production primary secondary, to become second DR replication target
.br
site3, node3: current first DR replication target, to become production primary
.br
site4, node4: current second DR replication target, to become production secondary
.RE
.PP
Note: Understand the impact before trying.
.PP
.RS 2
1.1 Collect information and prepare parameter sheet.
.PP
.B The next steps will invalidate all HANA data at current production sites (site1, site2).
.PP
2.1 Set SAPHanaController multi-state resource into maintenance at production
sites (site1, site2).
.RS 4
node1 # crm resource maintenance mst_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00
.RE
.PP
2.2 Change SAPHanaController to "PREFER_SITE_TAKEOVER=DR" at production sites
(site1, site2).
.RS 4
node1 # crm configure set rsc_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00.PREFER_SITE_TAKEOVER DR
.br
node1 # crm configure show rsc_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00 | grep PREFER_SITE_TAKEOVER
.RE
.PP
2.3 Refresh SAPHanaController multi-state resource at former production sites
(sites1, sites2).
.RS 4
node1 # crm resource refresh mst_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00
.RE
.PP
2.4 Stop HANA at former production secondary (site2).
.RS 4
node2 # su - ha1adm -c "HDB stop"
.RE
.PP
3.1 Set SAPHanaController multi-state resource into maintenance at current DR
sites (site3, site4).
.RS 4
node3 # crm resource maintenance mst_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00
.RE
.PP
3.2 Perform takeover at third site (site3: current DR - new production).
.RS 4
node3 # su - ha1adm -c "hdbnsutil -sr_takeover --suspendPrimary"
.br
node3 # su - ha1adm -c "cdpy; python systemReplicationStatus.py; echo rc:\\$?"
.RE
.PP
3.3 Change SAPHanaController to "PREFER_SITE_TAKEOVER=yes" at new production sites
(site3, site4).
.RS 4
node3 # crm configure set rsc_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00.PREFER_SITE_TAKEOVER yes
.br
node3 # crm configure show rsc_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00 | grep PREFER_SITE_TAKEOVER
.RE
.PP
3.4 Refresh SAPHanaController multi-state resource at new production sites (site3, site4).
.RS 4
node3 # crm resource refresh mst_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00
.RE
.PP
3.5 Get SAPHanaController multi-state out of maintenance at new production sites
(site3, site4).
.RS 4
node3 # crm resource maintenance mst_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00 off
.RE
.PP
3.6 Check that everything looks fine so far.
.PP
.B The next steps will overwrite all HANA data at former production sites (site1, site2).
.PP
4.1 Register former production primary as secondary (site1) to new production
primary (site3).
.RS 4
node1 # su - ha1adm
.br
node1 ~> hdbnsutil -sr_register --remoteHost=node3 --remoteInstance=00 \\
.br
 --replicationMode=async --operationMode=logreplay \\
.br
 --force_full_replica --name=site1
.br
node1 ~> exit
.RE
.PP
4.2 Enable system replication source at new first DR site (site1).
.RS 4
node1 # su - ha1adm "hdbnsutil -sr_enable"
.RE
.PP
4.3 Register new second DR site (site2) to first DR site (site1).
.RS 4
node2 # su - ha1adm
.br
node2 ~> hdbnsutil -sr_register --remoteHost=node1 --remoteInstance=00 \\
.br
 --replicationMode=syncmem --operationMode=logreplay \\
.br
 --force_full_replica --name=site2
.br
node2 ~> exit
.RE
.PP
4.4 Start new second DR site (site2).
.RS 4
node2 # su - ha1adm -c "HDB start"
.RE
.PP
4.5 Refresh SAPHanaController multi-state resource at new DR sites (site1, site2).
.RS 4
node2 # crm resource refresh mst_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00
.RE
.PP
4.6 Get SAPHanaController multi-state out of maintenance at new DR sites (site1, site2).
.RS 4
node2 # crm resource maintenance mst_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00 off
.RE
.PP
4.7 Check that everything looks fine.
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Procedure for switching HANA production and DR region, shut down HANA.
.PP
This might be done for regular takeover from production to DR region and as exercise.
The final status is identical to the above takeover procedure.
.PP
Third site is up and running with system replication enabled. All site names
have to be same as already known to the cluster. Example for scale-up. Details
on how to perform the steps can be found in additional examples.
.PP
site1, node1: current production primary, to become first DR replication target
.br
site2, node2: current production primary secondary, to become second DR replication
target
.br
site3, node3: current first DR replication target, to become production primary
.br
site4, node4: current second DR replication target, to become production secondary
.PP
Note: Understand the impact before trying.
.PP
1.1 Collect information and prepare parameter sheet.
.PP
2.1 Set SAPHanaController multi-state resource into maintenance at production
sites (site1, site2).
.br
2.2 Stop HANA database at production primary site (site1).
.br
2.3 Stop HANA database at production secondary site (site2).
.PP
3.1 Perform takeover to DR region as described in the respective example.
.PP
4.1 Register former production HANA as new DR as described in the respective example.
.PP
.\" TODO \fB*\fP Start cluster and HANA at DR region while production region is down.
.PP
\fB*\fP Additional measures for registering former productioan as new DR, if automatic cluster start is enabled.
.PP
To avoid risk of dual-primary, at any time only one region must run as HANA primary.
So, if a former production cluster starts the first time after outage and DR takeover,
the former HANA primary must not start. If the automatic cluster start is enabled,
additional steps need to be done before the regular procedure for registering as
new DR region. For scale-up, these steps are:
.PP
.RS 2
1. Make sure not both machines will boot after recovery.
.br
2. Boot only one machine.
.br
3. Login to that machine. Set the SAPHanaController multi-state resource into maintenance.
.br
4. Boot the second machine.
.br
5. Perform the regular procedure for registering former production HANA as new DR. 
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Entry in gobal.ini to register secondaries on takeover.
.PP
This entry is needed at all HANA nodes to allow ocf_suse_SAPHanaController(7)
parameter AUTOMATED_REGISTER=true in multi-target environments. The HANA has to
be stopped before the files can be edited. Do not copy the file between
nodes. Please check SAP HANA documentation for details.
.PP
.R2 2
[system_replication]
.br
 ...
.br
register_secondaries_on_takeover = true
 ...
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Copying HANA secure keystore from production primary to nodes at DR region.
.PP
Needs to be done at production primary before registering the DR secondaries.
Production primary is node2. DR secondary nodes are node3 and node4, SID is HA1.
.PP
.RS 2
node1 # cd /usr/sap/HA1/SYS/global/security/rsecssfs
.br
node1 # md5sum */*
.br
node1 # rsync -va * node3:$PWD/
.br
node1 # rsync -va * node4:$PWD/
.br
node1 # ssh node3 "md5sum $PWD/*/*"
.br
node1 # ssh node4 "md5sum $PWD/*/*"
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Preventing IPaddr2 from starting at DR sites.
.PP
The production HANA database might be accessed by the same IP address at both
regions. In that case the IP address must not run on the current DR sites.
Two locations contstraints are preventing from starting the IPAddr2 resource at
any DR site. This constraint is needed at both regions.
SID is HA1, instance number is 00.
.PP
.RS 2
location loc_ip_not_dr_1 rsc_ip_HA1_HDB00 rule -inf: \\
.br
 master-rsc_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00 lt 145
.br
location loc_ip_not_dr_2 rsc_ip_HA1_HDB00 rule -inf: \\
.br
 not_defined master-rsc_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB00
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Changing IPaddr2 at DR sites to match production.
.PP
The production HANA database might be accessed by the same IP address at both
regions. However, during installation and testing phase both regions should use
different IP addresses. Once one of the clusters is running in DR mode, in that
cluster the IP address can be changed to match the production.
SID is HA1, instance number is 00, IP address is 192.168.22.22 .
.PP
.RS 2
# crm configure set rsc_ip_HA1_HDB00.ip 192.168.22.22
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Using Dynamic DNS for moving the HANA IP address between regions. 
.PP
.\" TODO
It might be that the same IP address should be used at both regions. Usually
the IP address is managed by the IPaddr2 RA, sometimes together with a
loadbalancer. If this is not possible across regions, Dynamic DNS might be an
option. For details please refer to manual page ocf_heartbeat_dnsupdate(7).
.\" SUSE support KB article
.\" "SAPHanaSR HANA system replication automation without layer 2 network".
.PP
\fB*\fP Registering first DR node as secondary to production primary.
.PP
Needs to be done at first DR node.
DR site is site3, production primary is node1, SID is HA1, instance numner is 00.
.PP
.RS 2
# su - ha1adm
.br
~> HDB info
.br
~> hdbnsutil -sr_register --remoteHost=node1 --remoteInstance=00 \\
.br
 --replicationMode=async --operationMode=logreplay --name=site3 \\
.br
 --online
.br
~> hdbnsutil -sr_state
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Backing up first DR node and enabling system replication.
.PP
Needs to be done at first DR node, before registering another node.
First DR site is site3, SID is HA1, instance number is 00.
.PP
.RS 2
# su - ha1adm
.br
~> hdbsql -i 00 -u SYSTEM -d SYSTEMDB \\
.br
 "BACKUP DATA FOR FULL SYSTEM USING FILE ('backup')"
.br
~> hdbnsutil -sr_enable --name=site3
.br
~> hdbnsutil -sr_state
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Registering second DR node to first one.
.PP
Nees to be done at second DR node.
SID is HA1, site is site4, first DR node is node3, instance number is 00.
Needs first DR node up and running.
.PP
.RS 2
# su - ha1adm
.br
~> HDB info
.br
~> hdbnsutil -sr_register --remoteHost=node3 --remoteInstance=00 \\
.br
 --replicationMode=syncmem --operationMode=logreplay --name=site4 \\
.br
 --online
.br
~> hdbnsutil -sr_state
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Removing orphaned srHook attribute from CIB.
.PP
Might be done after a former production region site has been registered as
new DR region site to the new HANA production primary site.
SID is HA1, site is site1.
.br
Note: Understand the impact before trying.
.PP
.RS 2
# crm configure show SAPHanaSR | grep _srHook_site1=
.br
# crm_attribute -n hana_ha1_site_srHook_site1 -t crm_config \\
.br
 -s SAPHanaSR --delete
.br
# crm configure show SAPHanaSR | grep _srHook_site1=
.RE
.PP
.\"
.SH FILES
.\"
.TP
/hana/shared/$SID/global/hdb/custom/config/global.ini
on-disk representation of HANA global system configuration.
.TP
/usr/sap/$SID/SYS/global/security/rsecssfs/
HANA database secure keystore directory.
.PP
.\"
.SH REQUIREMENTS
.\"
.\" TODO \fB*\fP SAPHanaSR-angi version 1.3.1 or later.
.PP
\fB*\fP Only one system replication between the two SAP HANA databases in the Linux
cluster. Maximum one system replication to an HANA database outside the Linux cluster.
.PP 
\fB*\fP The replication mode is either sync or syncmem for the cluster controlled
replication. Replication mode async is not supported inside the Linux cluster.
The replication mode is async for the replication from production region to DR
region. Replication mode sync and syncmem are not supported between regions. 
.PP
\fB*\fP Once an HANA system replication site is known to the Linux cluster, that
exact site name has to be used whenever the site is registered manually. At any
time only one site is configured as primary replication source.
.PP
\fB*\fP The Linux clusters have no control over HANA system replication between the
production region and the DR region.
.PP
\fB*\fP No Multi-SID scenario.
.PP
\fB*\fP The SAPHanaSR with HA cluster at DR region scenario should be configured
as progressive variant. See SAPHanaSR-angi-scenarios(7).
.PP
\fB*\fP "register_secondaries_on_takeover = true" is needed at all HANA sites at
production region and DR region.
.PP
\fB*\fP All HANA sites need to have the same content in their HANA secure keystore.
.PP
\fB*\fP Sufficient disk space for transaction logs and log backup at each potential
replication source. Housekeeping might also help.
.PP
\fB*\fP Before connecting the DR region to the production region, the production
SAPHanaSR-angi scale-up performance-optimised cluster needs to be up and running.
.PP
\fB*\fP Before connecting the DR region to the production region, the DR region
has been set up as SAPHanaSR-angi scale-up performance-optimised cluster and the
whole cluster has been set into maintenance.
.PP
\fB*\fP The first site of the DR region is registered to the primary of the
production region, this replication mode is async.
The second site of the DR region is registered to the first site of the DR region,
this replication mode is sync or syncmem. 
.br
The resulting topology looks like: [ A <= B' ] -> { C => D }
.PP
\fB*\fP The SAPHanaController parameter "PREFER_SITE_TAKEOVER=DR" has to be set
at the DR passive cluster. In case of manual DR takeover, this parameter needs to
be changed. See manual page ocf_suse_SAPHanaController(7).
.PP
\fB*\fP At all nodes the automatic start of cluster at boot has to be disabled.
.PP
\fB*\fP The HA cluster moves an IP address with the HANA primary between the two
production nodes. The IP address will not be moved from production region to DR
region. However, the same IP address can be used in both regions, if the infrastructure
allows that. 
.PP
\fB*\fP Decision and procedure for takeover to DR region are in customer´s
responsibility. All need to comply to SAP HANA requirements, please refer to SAP
documentation for details.
.PP
\fB*\fP The third site´s srHook attribute is stored in the production cluster CIB.
The attribute stays, even if a former production has been registered as DR after
takeover. The attribute might be deleted manually to avoid confusion.
.PP
\fB*\fP Any manual procedure has to be tested, documented and trained before applied
on production systems.
.PP
See also the REQUIREMENTS section in manual pages SAPHanaSR(7) and susHanaSR.py(7). 
.PP
.\"
.SH BUGS
.\"
In case of any problem, please use your favourite SAP support process to open
a request for the component BC-OP-LNX-SUSE.
.\" TODO Please report any other feedback and suggestions to feedback@suse.com.
.PP
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.\"
\fBSAPHanaSR-angi\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR-angi-scenarios\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR\fP(7) , 
\fBSAPHanaSR_multi-target\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR_maintenance_examples\fP(7) ,
\fBocf_suse_SAPHanaController\fP(7) , \fBsusHanaSR.py\fP(7) ,
\fBocf_heartbeat_dnsupdate\fP(7) ,
\fBha_related_acronyms\fP(7) , \fBha_related_sap_notes\fP(7) ,
.br
https://support.scc.suse.com/s/kb/SAPHanaSR-HANA-system-replication-automation-without-layer-2-network?language=en_US
.br
https://help.sap.com/docs/SAP_HANA_PLATFORM/4e9b18c116aa42fc84c7dbfd02111aba/74418e86b48542ffb38b54072e0b66ce.html ,
.br
2517805 - How-to check if SAP HANA System Replication is in Sync or not
.PP
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
.\"
A.Briel, F.Herschel, L.Pinne.
.PP
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.\"
(c) 2026 SUSE LLC
.br
The package SAPHanaSR-angi comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
.br
For details see the GNU General Public License at
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
