.\" Version: 1.2
.\"
.TH SAPHanaSR-angi-scenarios 7 "05 Nov 2024" "" "SAPHanaSR-angi"
.\"
.SH NAME
SAPHanaSR-angi-scenarios \- SAP HANA system replication scenarios.
.PP
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
SAPHanaSR-angi covers two topologies, scale-up and scale-out. On each topology,
several scenarios are supported. Finally, for most scenarios, two variants are
possible. 
.PP
\fB* Scenarios overview\fB
.PP
The table shows the known SAPHanaSR-angi HA scenarios for HANA system replication
for the two HANA topologies. The current support status is also shown.
.PP
.\" see man tbl and https://technicallywewrite.com/2023/09/23/tblexample
.TS
tab(@) allbox center;
cb cb cb
c c c
^ c ^
^ c ^
^ c c
^ c ^
^ c ^
^ c ^
^ c c
^ c ^
c c c
^ c ^
^ c ^
^ c c
^ c c
^ c ^
^ c ^
^ c ^.
Topology@Scenario@Status
Scale-Up@perf-opt@Supported
@perf-opt, 2nd site read-enabled@Supported
@perf-opt, multi-target, 3rd site outside cluster@Supported
@perf-opt, multi-SID@Undocumented
@perf-opt, w. S/4 ENSA2 in same cluster@Undocumented
@cost-opt@Undocumented
@cost-opt, multi-target@Non-supported
@perf-opt, multi-target, 3rd site inside cluster@Non-supported
@two perf-opt clusters connected@Non-supported
Scale-Out@perf-opt, up to 12 nodes, no standby (BW)@Supported
@perf-opt, 4 nodes, 2nd site read-enabled (ERP)@Supported
@perf-opt, multi-target, 3rd site outside cluster@Supported
@perf-opt, up to 30 nodes w. standby (BW)@Undocumented
@perf-opt, multi-target, 3rd site inside cluster@Non-supported
@perf-opt, multi-SID@Non-supported
@cost-opt@Non-supported
@two perf-opt clusters connected@Non-supported
.TE
.PP
.RS 4
Note: One additional Linux cluster node at 3rd site is needed for all scale-out scenarios.
.RE
.\" TODO align wording with "Supported HA Solutions"
.PP
\fBSupported\fP - the scenario is known to work for the given topology. The
setup has been tested and is documented in a setup guide. It is supported by
SUSE.
.PP
\fBUndocumented\fP - the scenario is expected to work for the given topology.
The setup is currently not documented in a setup guide. SUSE services are
prepared to help with implementation. Once the setutp is working, it could be
supported by SUSE.
.PP
\fBNon-supported\fP - the scenario is expected not to work. It is not supported
by SUSE.
.PP
For details on requirements and configuration of the scenarios, please refer to
manual pages SAPHanaSR-angi(7), SAPHanaSR(7) and SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut(7), as well
as the respective setup guides.
.PP
\fB* Scenario notation\fB
.PP
It might help to describe scenarios in a pseudo-visualising notation.
.PP
.TS
tab(@) allbox center;
cb cb
c c
c c
c c
c c
c c
c c
c c
c c.
Symbol@Meaning
[ ]@Linux cluster
 A B C@master nameserver node
 a b c@worker node
 _ @ standby node
=>@synchronous replication
->@asynchronous replication
'@primary IP address
"@secondary (read-enabled) IP address
.TE

.PP
The scale-up performance-optimised multi-target scenario can be noted as:
.br
[ A' => B ] -> C
.PP
\fB* Variants overview\fB
.PP
.\" TODO variants conservative, progressive
SAPHanaSR-angi allows to define different variants of reaction on failures.
.PP
\fBConservative\fR – default configuration
.br
The cluster is patient, it prefers stopping HANA over fencing nodes. It does
not react on filesystem failures.
.PP
\fBProgressive\fR – alternative configuration
.br
The cluster reacts on failures of HANA or filesystem with fencing all nodes
of the affected site. Takeover time might be further reduced by using diskless SBD.
.PP
For details on configuration of the variants, please refer to manual pages
ocf_suse_SAPHanaController(7), ocf_suse_SAPHana(7), ocf_suse_SAPHanaFilesystem(7),
SAPHanaSR-alert-fencing(8), susChkSrv.py(7), SAPHanaSR_basic_cluster(7),
SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut_basic_cluster(7).
.PP
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
\fB* Examples for supported scenarios\fR
.TP
Scale-up performance-optimised multi-target
[ A' => B ] -> C
.TP
Scale-up cost-optimised
[ A' => B,Q ]
.TP
Scale-out performance-optimised multi-target read-enabled (ERP)
[ 'Aa => "Bb ] -> Cc -> Dd
.TP
Scale-out performance-optimised 8-node w. standby (BW)
[ 'Aaaaaaa_ => Bbbbbbb_ ]
.PP
\fB* Examples for non-supported scenarios\fR
.TP
Scale-up performance-optimised multi-target 3rd site in cluster
[ A' => B => C ]
.TP
Scale-out performance-optimised two clusters connected
[ 'Aa => Bb ] -> [ 'Cc => Dd ]
.PP
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
In case of any problem, please use your favourite SAP support process to open
a request for the component BC-OP-LNX-SUSE.
Please report any other feedback and suggestions to feedback@suse.com.
.PP
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBSAPHanaSR-angi\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR-ScaleOut\fP(7) ,
\fBocf_suse_SAPHanaController\fP(7) , \fBocf_suse_SAPHana\fP(7) ,
\fBocf_suse_SAPHanaFilesystem\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR-alert-fencing\fP(8) ,
\fBsusChkSrv.py\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR_basic_cluster\fP(7) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR-ScaleOut_basic_cluster\fP(7) ,
.br
https://documentation.suse.com/sles-sap/sap-ha-support/html/sap-ha-support/article-sap-ha-support.html ,
.br
https://documentation.suse.com/sbp/sap-15/
.PP
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
A.Briel, F.Herschel, L.Pinne.
.PP
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
(c) 2024 SUSE LLC
.br
The package SAPHanaSR-angi comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
.br
For details see the GNU General Public License at
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
