.\" Version: 1.2 
.\"
.TH SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut_basic_cluster 7 "20 Nov 2024" "" "SAPHanaSR"
.\"
.SH NAME
SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut_basic_cluster \- SAP HANA System Replication scale-out basic cluster configuration.
.PP
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The SAP HANA System Replication scale-out scenario needs a certain basic
cluster configuration. Besides this necessary settings, some additional
configurations might match specific needs. Adapting a few SAP HANA settings
might be beneficial as well.
.\"
.\" \fB* Corosync Basics\fR
.\"
.PP
\fB* CRM Basics\fR
.PP
\fBno-quorum-policy = freeze\fR
.PP
The crm basic parameter no-quorum-policy defines how the cluster should act in
case of quorum loss. With more than two nodes, the cluster must not ignore the
quorum loss. For SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut, an odd number of nodes is required. Setting
no-quorum-policy to 'freeze' won't allow the partition to shoot any other node
when it doesn't have quorum. Cluster will not be able to add and start new resources,
but running will stay alive.
If the cluster uses disk-less SBD, the no-quorum-policy 'suicide' is required. 
.PP
\fBdefault-resource-stickiness = 1000\fR
.PP
The crm basic parameter default-resource-stickiness defines the 'stickiness'
score a resource gets on the node where it is currently running. This prevents
the cluster from moving resources around without an urgent need during a
cluster transition. The correct value depends on number of resources, colocation
rules and resource groups. Particularly additional groups colocated to the
HANA primary master resource can affect cluster decisions. 
Too high value might prevent not only unwanted but also useful actions.
This is because SAPHanaSR uses an internal scoring table for placing the HANA
roles on the right nodes.
.PP
\fBconcurrent-fencing = true\fR
.PP
The crm basic parameter concurrent-fencing allows the cluster to fence more
than one node at a time. This helps to reduce the time needed for a take over in
case a whole data center is lost. If nodes are fenced one by one, the time needed
would be equal to the \fBnumber of nodes * stonith timeout\fR. With concurrent-fencing
enabled the time needed is in the range of \fB2 * stonith timeout\fR, independent of
the number of nodes. See also \fBpcmk_action_limit\fR below.
.PP
\fBfailure-timeout = 86400\fR
.PP
The crm basic parameter failure-timeout defines how long failed actions will
be kept in the CIB. After that time the failure record will be deleted. The
time is measured in seconds. See also \fBmigration-threshold\fR below.
.PP
\fBmigration-threshold = 50\fR
.PP
The crm basic parameter migration-threshold defines how many errors on a
resource can be detected before this resource will be migrated to another node.
See also \fBfailure-timeout\fR.
.PP
\fBrecord-pending = false\fR
.PP
The op_default record-pending defines, whether the intention of an action
upon the resource is recorded in the Cluster Information Base (CIB).
Setting this parameter to 'true' allows the user to see pending actions like 'starting'
and 'stopping' in \fBcrm_mon\fR and \fBHawk\fR.
.PP
\fB* SBD STONITH Basics\fR
.PP
\fBpcmk_action_limit = -1\fR
.PP
The sbd stonith parameter pcmk_action_limit defines the maximum number of
concurrent fencing actions. It allows parallel fencing of multiple nodes. 
A value of '-1' means virtually unlimited. 
See also \fBconcurrent-fencing\fR above.
.PP
\fBpcmk_delay_max = 1s\fR
.PP
The sbd stonith parameter pcmk_delay_max defines an upper limit for waiting
before a fencing/stonith request will be triggerd.
This parameter should prevent the cluster from unwanted double fencing in case
of spilt-brain. A value around 30 seconds is required in two-node clusters. It
is not needed in usual SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut setups.
.PP
\fB* systemd Basics\fR
.PP
\fBsaphostagent.service enabled\fR
.br
\fBSAP${SID}_${INO}.service enabled\fR
.PP
In case systemd-style init is used for the HANA database, the services saphostagent
and SAP${SID}_${INO} need to be enabled and running inside the SAP slice.
The instance profile Autostart feature needs to be off.
The service saptune is highly recommended, see manual page saptune(8).
.PP
\fB* pacemaker service dependency to SAP instance service\fR
.PP
\fB[Unit]\fR
.br
\fBWants=SAP${SID}_${INO}.service\fR
.br
\fBAfter=SAP${SID}_${INO}.service\fR
.PP
In case systemd-style init is used for the HANA database, it might be desired
to have the SAP instance service stopping after pacemaker at system shutdown.
Therefor a drop-in file for the pacemaker service might help. See examples below.
.PP
\fB* pacemaker service basics\fR
.PP
\fBPCMK_fail_fast = yes\fR
.PP
The parameter PCMK_fail_fast in /etc/sysconfig/pacemaker specifies how pacemaker
reacts on failures of its subdaemons. Default "no" means to restart failed
subdaemons, while "yes" means fencing the node. Setting "yes" might help to avoid
undefined situations. See also SAPHanaSR-alert-fencing(8).
.br
Optional, default no
.PP
\fB* SAP HANA Basics\fR
.PP
\fB/usr/sap/${SID}/SYS/global/hdb/custom/config/global.ini\fR
.PP
\fB[memorymanager]\fR
.br
\fBfinal_memory_release_shutdown = [ auto | on | off ]\fR
.br
\fBfinal_memory_release_crash = [ auto | on | off ]\fR
.PP
Starting with SAP HANA 2.0 SPS06, the database shutdown can be accelerated by
optimizing memory de-allocation. Please refer to SAP documentation before setting
this parameters.
.\" TODO SAP notes 3405297 ?
.PP
\fB/usr/sap/${SID}/SYS/global/hdb/custom/config/daemon.ini
.PP
\fB[daemon]\fR
.br
\fBterminationtimeout =  [ \fImillisec\fB ]\fR
.br
\fBforcedterminationtimeout = [ \fImillisec\fB ]\fR
.PP
The first parameter defines the timeout from sending SIGTERM to finally terminating
child processes when HANA is shutting down by the STOP event. Used also as maximal
delay in system restart if 'restartterminationtimeout' parameter is not set.
The second defines the timeout from sending the SIGTERM to finally terminating
child processes when HANA is shutting down by the QUIT event. See also manual page
susChkSrv.py(7).
Please refer to SAP documentation before setting this parameters.
.\" TODO check above
.PP
\fB/hana/shared/${SID}/global/hdb/custom/config/nameserver.ini\fR
.PP
\fB[landscape]\fR
.br
\fBmaster = \fInode1\fB:31\fInr\fB1\fR
.br
\fBworker = \fInode1 node2\fR
.br
\fBactive_master = \fInode1\fB:31\fInr\fB1\fR
.br
\fBroles_\fInode1\fB = worker\fR
.br
\fBroles_\fInode2\fB = worker\fR
.PP
For two-node scale-out HANA without standby nodes, this entry is needed at both
sites that are managed by the Linux cluster.
The HANA has to be stopped before the files can be edited. Do not copy the file
between nodes. It might be necessary to un-register and re-register the secondary
to make the change effective on the secondary site.
In the example, \fInode1\fR should be the master namerserver´s hostname,
\fInode2\fR the worker´s hostname, \fInr\fR the instance number. Crucial is to
define only one master namerserver per site, but no candidates.
Please check SAP HANA documentation for details.
.\" In this example the master node is suse11, the worker is suse12. The instance number is 00.
.PP
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
\fB* crm basic configuration\fR
.PP
Below is an example crm basic configuration for SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut. Shown are
specific parameters which are needed. Some general parameters are left out.
.br
This example has been taken from SLE-HA 11 SP4 with disk-based SBD:
.PP
.RS 2
.br
property $id="cib-bootstrap-options" \\
.br
 expected-quorum-votes="31" \\
.br
 no-quorum-policy="freeze" \\
.br
 dc-deadtime="20s" \\
.br
 default-resource-stickiness="1000" \\
.br
 stonith-enabled="true" \\
.br
 stonith-timeout="180s" \\
.br
 concurrent-fencing="true"
.br
rsc_defaults $id="rsc_defaults-options" \\
.br
 resource-stickiness="1000" \\
.br
 migration-threshold="50" \\
.br
 failure-timeout="86400s"
.br
op_defaults $id="op-options" \\
.br
 record-pending="false" \\
.br
 timeout="600s"
.br
op_defaults $id="op_defaults-options" \\
.br
 timeout="300s"
.RE
.PP
The following example is for SLE-HA 15 SP1 with disk-based SBD:
.PP
.RS 2
.br
property cib-bootstrap-options: \\
.br
 have-watchdog=true \\
.br
 cluster-infrastructure=corosync \\
.br
 cluster-name=hacluster \\
.br
 stonith-enabled=true \\
.br
 placement-strategy=balanced \\
.br
 stonith-timeout=180 \\
.br
 no-quorum-policy=freeze \\
.br
 concurrent-fencing=true
.br
rsc_defaults rsc-options: \\
.br
.\" TODO resource-stickiness=120 or 1000?
 resource-stickiness=120 \\
.br
 migration-threshold=50 \\
.br
 failure-timeout=86400
.br
op_defaults op-options: \\
.br
 timeout=600 \\
.br
 record-pending=true
.RE
.PP
.\" TODO example for SLE-HA 15 SP5 with disk-based and diskless SBD.
\fB* crm SBD stonith configuration\fR
.PP
To complete the SBD setup, it is necessary to activate SBD as STONITH/fencing
mechanism in the CIB. The SBD is normally used for SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut instead
of any other fencing/stonith mechanism. Example for a basic disk-based SBD
resource:
.PP
.RS 2
.br
primitive rsc_stonith_sbd stonith:external/sbd \\
.br
 params pcmk_action_limit="-1" pcmk_delay_max="1"
.RE
.PP
\fB* crm simple IP address resource configuration\fR
.PP
Let the Linux cluster manage one IP address and move that address along
with the HANA primary master nameserver.
.PP
.RS 2
.br
primitive rsc_ip_SLE_HDB00 IPaddr2 \\
.br
 op monitor interval=10s timeout=20s \\
.br
 params ip=192.168.178.188
.br
colocation col_ip_with_SLE_HDB00 \\
.br
 2000: rsc_ip_SLE_HDB00:Started mst_SAPHanaCon_SLE_HDB00:Promoted
.RE
.PP
\fB* crm protective IP address resource configuration\fR
.PP
Let the Linux cluster manage one IP address. The resource should tolerate short
absence of (virtual) network cards. If a monitor and the resulting start fails,
the node should get fenced. This protects against risk of HANA dual-primary.
A colocation constraint between this IP address resource and the HANA primary
master nameserver is needed as well, see respective examples.
.PP
.RS 2
.br
primitive rsc_ip_SLE_HDB00 IPaddr2 \\
.br
 op monitor interval=30 timeout=60 \\
.br
 op start timeout=90 on-fail=fence \\
.\" TODO on-fail=standby?
.br
 params ip=192.168.178.188 cidr_netmask=32
.RE
.PP
This configuration might be used in public cloud environments where virtual NICs
might be expected to disappear temporarily. Of course, it would be better to not
let NICs dissapear in production. I.e. by adding redundancy to the network or by
setting the cluster into maintenance.
.PP
\fB* crm IP address for active/active read-enabled resource configuration\fR
.PP
Let the Linux cluster manage an additional IP address and move that address
along with the HANA secondary master nameserver.
.br
Note: This example works for two-node HANA scale-out.
.\" TODO multi-node see below
.PP
.RS 2
.br
primitive rsc_ip_ro_SLE_HDB00 IPaddr2 \\
.br
 op monitor interval=10s timeout=20s \\
.br
 params ip=192.168.178.199
.br
colocation col_ip_ro_with_secondary_SLE_HDB00 \\
.br
 2000: rsc_ip_ro_SLE_HDB00:Started mst_SAPHanaCon_SLE_HDB00:Demoted
.br
location loc_ip_ro_not_master_SLE_HDB00 \\
.br
 rsc_ip_ro_SLE_HDB00 \\
.br
 rule -inf: hana_sle_roles ne master1:master:worker:master
.\" TODO works this for multi-node:  rule 8000: score eq 100
.RE
.PP
\fB* crm grouped IP address resource configuration\fR
.PP
Let the Linux cluster manage one IP address and move that address along
with the HANA primary master nameserver. An auxiliary resource is needed
for specific public cloud purpose.
.\" TODO
.PP
.RS 2
primitive rsc_ip_SLE_HDB00 IPaddr2 \\
.br
 op monitor interval=10s timeout=20s \\
.br
 params ip=192.168.178.188 cidr_netmask=32
.br
primitive rsc_lb_SLE_HDB00 azure-lb \\
.br
 params port=62502
.br
group grp_ip_SLE_HDB00 rsc_lb_SLE_HDB00 rsc_ip_SLE_HDB00 \\
.br
 meta resource-stickiness=1
.br 
colocation col_ip_with_SLE_HDB00 \\
.br
 8000: grp_ip_SLE_HDB00:Started mst_SAPHanaCon_SLE_HDB00:Promoted
.RE
.PP
\fB* check how resource stickiness affects promotion scoring\fR
.PP
SAPHanaSR uses an internal scoring table. The promotion scores for HANA
primary and secondary master are in a certain range. The scores used by the
Linux cluster should be in the same range.
.PP
.RS 2
# SAPHanaSR-showAttr | grep master.:master
.br
# crm_simulate -Ls | grep promotion
.RE
.PP
\fB* clean up SDB stonith resource after write failure\fR
.PP
In rare cases the SBD stonith resource failes writing to the block device.
After the root cause has been found and fixed, the failure message can be
cleaned.
.PP
.RS 2
# stonith_admin --cleanup --history=<originator_node> 
.RE
.PP
\fB* check saphostagent and show SAP instances\fR
.PP
Basic check for the saphostagent.
.PP
.RS 2
# /usr/sap/hostctrl/exe/saphostctrl -function Ping
.br
# /usr/sap/hostctrl/exe/saphostctrl -function ListInstances
.RE
.PP
\fB* check systemd services for the HANA database\fR
.PP
In case systemd-style init is used for the HANA database, the services can be
checked. Example SID is HA1, instance number is 10.
.PP
.RS 2
# systemctl list-unit-files | grep -i sap
.br
# systemctl status SAPHA1_10.service
.br
# systemd-cgls -u SAP.slice
.br
# systemd-cgls -u SAPHA1_10.service
.br
# systemctl show SAPHA1_10.service
.\" TODO check Autostart not set.
.RE
.PP
\fB* show pacemaker service drop-in file\fR
.PP
In case systemd-style init is used for the HANA database, it might be desired
to have the  SAP instance service stopping after pacemaker at system shutdown.
A drop-in file might help. Example SID is S07, instance number is 00.
.PP
.RS 2
# cat /etc/systemd/system/pacemaker.service.d/00-pacemaker.conf
.br
[Unit]
.br
Description=pacemaker needs SAP instance service
.br
Documentation=man:SAPHanaSR_basic_cluster(7)
.br
Wants=SAPS07_00.service
.br
After=SAPS07_00.service
.RE
.PP
\fB* check for pacemaker dependency to SAP instance service\fR
.PP
Example SID is S07, instance number is 00.
.PP
.RS 2
# systemctl show pacemaker.service | grep SAP07_00
.br
# systemd-delta | grep pacemaker
.br
# systemd-analyze dot | grep "pacemaker.*SAPS07_00"
.RE
.PP
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
In case of any problem, please use your favourite SAP support process to open
a request for the component BC-OP-LNX-SUSE.
Please report any other feedback and suggestions to feedback@suse.com.
.PP
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBocf_suse_SAPHanaTopology\fP(7) , \fBocf_suse_SAPHanaController\fP(7) ,
\fBocf_suse_SAPHanaFilesystem\fP(7) , \fBocf_heartbeat_IPaddr2\fP(7) , 
\fBsbd\fP(8) , \fBstonith_sbd\fP(7) , \fBstonith_admin\fP(8) , 
\fBcrm_no_quorum_policy\fP(7) , \fBcrm\fP(8) , \fBcrm_simulate\fP(8) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR-ScaleOut\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR-showAttr\fP(7) ,
\fBcorosync.conf\fP(5) , \fBvotequorum\fP(5) ,
\fBnfs\fP(5) , \fBmount\fP(8) , \fBsystemctl\fP(1) ,
\fBsystemd-cgls\fP(1) ,\fBsystemd-analyze\fP(1) , \fBsystemd-delta\fP(1) , 
\fBha_related_suse_tids\fP(7) , \fBha_related_sap_notes\fP(7) ,
.br
https://documentation.suse.com/sbp/all/?context=sles-sap ,
.br
https://documentation.suse.com/sles-sap/ ,
.br
https://www.suse.com/support/kb/ ,
.br
https://www.clusterlabs.org
.PP
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
F.Herschel, L.Pinne.
.PP
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
(c) 2018 SUSE Linux GmbH, Germany.
.br
(c) 2019-2024 SUSE LLC
.br
For details see the GNU General Public License at
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
