.\" Version: 1.001
.\"
.TH SAPHanaSR-show-hadr-runtimes 8 "18 Apr 2023" "" "SAPHanaSR"
.\"
.SH NAME
SAPHanaSR-show-hadr-runtimes \- Shows SAPHanaSR.py and SAPHanaSrMultiTarget.py hook script runtimes
.\"
.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBSAPHanaSR-show-hadr-runtimes\fR [ --help | --version ]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
SAPHanaSR-show-hadr-runtimes shows susHanaSR.py and susHanaSrMultiTarget.py HADR provider hook script runtimes from HANA nameserver tracefiles.
.\" TODO details
.PP
The output shows six columns.
.\" TODO details
.PP
1. date
.PP
2. time of day
.PP
3. runtime in seconds
.PP
4. HADR provider hook script
.br
ha_dr_SAPHanaSR indicates old-style, ha_dr_SAPHanaSrM indicates multi-target
.PP
5. call ID used by HANA
.br
suffix unifies multiple IDs in tracefile
.PP
6. hook script actions
.br
Ds - SAPHanaSR.srConnectionChanged.*method called with Dict 
.br
Ib - ignoring bad status
.br
Ie - ignoring empty site
.br
Cg - CALLING CRM: write CIB attribute hana_<sid>_glob_srHook
.br
Cv - CALLING CRM: write CIB attribute hana_<sid>_gsh
.br
Lv - CALLING CRM: read CIB attribute hana_<sid>_gsh
.br
Cs - CALLING CRM: write CIB attribute hana_<sid>_site_srHook_<site>
.\" TODO The Lv and Cx actions are the expensive call-outs.
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.HP
\fB --help\fR
        show help.
.HP
\fB --version\fR
        show version.
.\"
.SH RETURN CODES
.B 0
Successful program execution.
.br
.B >0
Usage, syntax or execution errors.
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.\" TODO examples
.TP
* Show HADR hook script calls in chronological order.
.br
# sort -k2,3 nameserver_*.3?????.???.trc | SAPHanaSR-show-hadr-runtimes | sort -k1,2
.TP
* Show HADR hook script call runtimes, call-outs only.
# sort -k2,3 nameserver_*.3?????.???.trc | SAPHanaSR-show-hadr-runtimes | grep -v "DsI"
.TP
* Show HADR hook script calls sorted by runtime.
# sort -k2,3 nameserver_*.3?????.???.trc | SAPHanaSR-show-hadr-runtimes | sort -n -k3
.\"
.SH FILES
.TP
/usr/bin/SAPHanaSR-show-hadr-runtimes
        the program itself.
.TP
/usr/sap/${SID}/HDB${InstNr}/${HOST}/trace/
	the HANA tracefile directory.
.\"
.SH BUGS
Formatting and content of this script's output will change, since this script
is under development. This script is not intended to be called from monitoring
tools.
.br
The HADR provider hook script and runtime environment are not exactly optiomally prepared for calculating runtimes. Thus results from SAPHanaSR-show-hadr-runtimes might be incomplete or unprecise sometimes.
.br
In case of any problem, please use your favourite SAP support process to open
a request for the component BC-OP-LNX-SUSE.
Please report any other feedback and suggestions to feedback@suse.com.
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsusHanaSR.py\fP(7) , \fBsusHanaSrMultiTarget.py\fP(7) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR-showAttr\fP(8) ,
\fBsort\fP(8)
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
F.Herschel, L.Pinne.
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
(c) 2021-2023 SUSE LLC
.br
SAPHanaSR-show-hadr-runtimes comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
.br
For details see the GNU General Public License at
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
