.\" Version: 0.180.0
.\"
.TH SAPHanaSR-filter 8 "27 May 2022" "" "SAPHanaSR"
.\"
.SH NAME
SAPHanaSR-filter \- Filter for output of SAPHanaSR-showAttr and SAPHanaSR-replay-archive.
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBSAPHanaSR-filter\fR [ --help | --version ]
.br
.\"\fBSAPHanaSR-monitor\fR TODO 
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBSAPHanaSR-filter\fP filters output of SAPHanaSR-showAttr and SAPHanaSR-replay-archive. 
.\" TODO description
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.HP
\fB --help\fR
        show help.
.HP
\fB --version\fR
        show version.
.HP
\fB --search\fR=PATTERN
.br
        Specify a pattern to filter the output. Only meaningful for output-option 'script' of SAPHanaSR-replay-archive.
.HP
\fB --filterDouble\fR
.br
        Only output a key-value pair again, if the value did change.
.HP
\fB --showFormerValues\fR
.br
        Output current and last stored value.
.\" TODO more options
.\"
.SH RETURN CODES
.B 0
Successful program execution.
.br
.B >0
Usage, syntax or execution errors.
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
* Filter replay of SAPHanaSR actions from hb_report for a specific host
# SAPHanaSR-replay-archive --format=script hb_suse.tar.bz2 |\\
.br
	SAPHanaSR-filter --search='Hosts/lv9054/role' --filterDouble
.\"
.SH FILES
.TP
/usr/bin/SAPHanaSR-filter
the program itself.
.TP
/usr/lib/SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut
directory with function libraries.
.\"
.SH BUGS
Formatting and content of this script's output will change, since this
script is under development.
Feedback is welcome, please mail to feedback@suse.com.
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBocf_suse_SAPHanaController\fP(7) , \fBocf_suse_SAPHanaTopology\fP(7) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR-showAttr\fP(8) , \fBSAPHanaSR-monitor\fP(8) , \fBSAPHanaSR-replay-archive\fP(8) ,
\fBcibadmin\fP(8) , 
.br
https://documentation.suse.com/sbp/all/?context=sles-sap ,
.br
https://documentation.suse.com/sles-sap/ ,
.br
https://www.susecon.com/doc/2015/sessions/TUT19921.pdf ,
.br
https://www.susecon.com/doc/2016/sessions/TUT90846.pdf ,
.br
https://www.susecon.com/archive-2020.html
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
F.Herschel, L.Pinne.
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.br
(c) 2018-2022 SUSE LLC
.br
SAPHanaSR-filter comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
.br
For details see the GNU General Public License at
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
