.\" Version: 1.001
.\"
.TH SAPHanaSR-manageProvider 8 "13 Jan 2024" "" "SAPHanaSR"
.\"
.SH NAME
SAPHanaSR-manageProvider \- adds, updates, removes or shows HADR provider sections for SAP HANA
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBSAPHanaSR-manageProvider\fR [ --help | --version ]
.br
\fBSAPHanaSR-manageProvider\fR [ --sid=SID ] [--reconfigure] --add <template-file>
.br
\fBSAPHanaSR-manageProvider\fR [ --sid=SID ] [--reconfigure] --remove <template-file>
.br
\fBSAPHanaSR-manageProvider\fR [ --sid=SID ] --show --provider=<provider>
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
SAPHanaSR-manageProvider allows to add (and update), to remove and show SAP HANA
HADR provider sections. This is possible online and offline. It is possible on
the primary as well as on the secondary.
.br
The provider section name is case sensitive. Usually all lowercase is used for
the section name. The provider hook script names are camelCase.
.br
This script needs to be run as <sid>adm user.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
\fB --help\fR
show help.
.TP 4
\fB --version\fR
show version.
.TP 4
\fB --add\fR <template-file>
add the section given in the template file to configuration.
.TP 4
\fB --remove\fR <template-file>
remove the section given in the template file from configuration.
.TP 4
\fB --reconfigure\fR
apply change to running HANA, like 'hdbnsutil -reloadHADRProviders'.
.TP 4
\fB --show --provider\fR=<provider>
show the section for given provider from configuration.
.TP 4
\fB --sid\fR=<SID>
use SAP system ID <SID>. Should be autodetected, if there is only one SAP HANA
instance installed on the local cluster node. 
.\"
.SH RETURN CODES
.B 0
Successful program execution.
.br
.B >0
Usage, syntax or execution errors.
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
\fB*\fR Show names of all HA/DR provider sections in global.ini.

Might be useful to see whether sections are named lower/upper/camel-case.
SID is HA1.
.PP
.RS 2
# su - ha1adm -c "cdcoc; grep ^\\[ha_dr_provider_\ global.ini"  
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fR Show the global.ini section ha_dr_provider_suschksrv, if available.

Example SID is HA1, the HADR provider script is susChkSrv.py. See also manual
page susChkSrv.py(7).
.PP
.RS 2
# su - ha1adm -c "/usr/bin/SAPHanaSR-manageProvider --show --provider=suschksrv"
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fR Add section and activate the provider hook script susHanaSR.py.

Example SID is HA1, the HADR provider hook script is susHanaSR.py. See also
manual page susHanaSR.py(7).
.br
Note: 'hdbnsutil -reloadHADRProviders' loads everything from global.ini.
.PP
.RS 2
# cat /usr/share/SAPHanaSR/samples/global.ini
.br
# su - ha1adm -c "/usr/bin/SAPHanaSR-manageProvider --add /usr/share/SAPHanaSR/samples/global.ini"
.br
# su - ha1adm -c "hdbnsutil -reloadHADRProviders; echo rc=$?"
.br
# su - ha1adm -c "cdtrace; grep SAPHanaSR.init nameserver_*.trc" 
.RE
.PP
.\" \fB*\fR Replace section ha_dr_provider_SAPHanaSR by ha_dr_provider_saphanasrmultitarget.
.\"
.\" TODO
.\" .RS 2
.\" ~> SAPHanaSR-manageProvider --remove SAPHanaSR
.\" .br
.\" TODO
.\" .br
.\" ~> SAPHanaSR-manageProvider --add saphanasrmultitarget TODO
.\" .RE
.\" .PP
\fB*\fR Change timeout for HADR provider hook script susTkOver.py.

Example SID is HA1, timeout is changed from 35 to 30. The configuration is
changed and applied to the running hook script. See also manual page
susTkOver.py(7). 
.PP
.RS 2
# su - ha1adm
.br
~> /usr/bin/SAPHanaSR-manageProvider --show --provider=sustkover >sustkover.old
.br
~> sed s/sustkover_timeout\\ =\\ 35/sustkover_timeout\\ =\\ 30/g <sustkover.old >sustkover.new
.br
~> /usr/bin/SAPHanaSR-manageProvider --add --provider=sustkover sustkover.new 
.br
~> hdbnsutil -reloadHADRProviders
.br
~> cdtrace; grep susTkOver.init nameserver_*.trc
.\"
.SH FILES
.TP 4
/usr/bin/SAPHanaSR-manageProvider
the program itself.
.TP 4
/usr/sap/<SID>/SYS/global/hdb/custom/config/global.ini
the global.ini configuration on disk. Do not edit directly.
.TP 4
/usr/sap/<SID>/HDB<INO>/<VIRT_HOST>/trace/
directory with HANA trace files.
.TP 4
/usr/share/SAPHanaSR-angi/samples/
directory with samples of HADR provider sections. 
.TP 4
setParameter.py
the SAP python script to interact with global.ini.
.\"
.SH BUGS
Command hangs, if it needs an input file and you do not specify the file.
.br
In case of any problem, please use your favourite SAP support process to open
a request for the component BC-OP-LNX-SUSE.
Please report any other feedback and suggestions to feedback@suse.com.
.PP
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBSAPHanaSR-ScaleOut\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR\fP(7) ,
\fBsusHanaSR.py\fP(7) , \fBsusHanaSrMultiTarget.py\fP(7) ,
\fBsusCostOpt.py\fP(7) , \fBsusTkOver.py\fP(7) , \fBsusChkSrv.py\fP(7) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR_maintenance_examples\fP(7) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR-manageAttr\fP(8) , \fBcs_show_hana_info\fP(8) ,
.br
https://documentation.suse.com/sbp/sap/ ,
.br
https://documentation.suse.com/sles-sap/ ,
.br
https://www.susecon.com/doc/2015/sessions/TUT19921.pdf ,
.br
https://www.susecon.com/archive-2020.html ,
.br
https://www.susecon.com/archive-2021.html
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
F.Herschel, L.Pinne.
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
(c) 2022-2024 SUSE LLC
.br
SAPHanaSR-manageProvider comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
.br
For details see the GNU General Public License at
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
