.\" Version: 1.001 
.\"
.TH SAPHanaSR-upgrade-to-angi-demo 8 "08 Mar 2024" "" "SAPHanaSR"
.\"
.SH NAME
SAPHanaSR-upgrade-to-angi-demo \- How to upgrade from SAPHanaSR to SAPHanaSR-angi.
.PP
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBSAPHanaSR-upgrade-to-angi-demo\fR [ --help | --version | --list | --check | --erase | --upgrade ]
.br
\fBSAPHanaSR-upgrade-to-angi-demo\fR --run \fIFUNCTION\fP [ \fIFUNCTION\fP [ ...  ]] 
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
SAPHanaSR-upgrade-to-angi-demo demonstrates how to upgrade from SAPHanaSR to
SAPHanaSR-angi. The script collects information from an Linux HA cluster with
SAPHanaSR. Based on that data it suggests step by step the commands to upgrade
the cluster. The running configuration is not changed. See also manual page
SAPHanaSR_upgrade_to_angi(7).
.PP
.B SAPHanaSR-upgrade-to-angi-demo is shipped as technology preview.
.PP
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
\fB --help\fP
show help.
.TP 4
\fB --version\fP
show version.
.TP 4
\fB --check\fP
do some basic checks on configuration and status of Linux cluster.
.TP 4
\fB --erase\fP
show demo for removing SAPHanaSR.
.TP 4
\fB --list\fP
list SAPHanaSR-upgrade-to-angi-demo functions.
.TP 4
\fB --run \fP \fIFUNCTION\fP [ \fIFUNCTION\fP [ ... ]]
run given function(s). Not all functions will work, once CIB attributes have been deleted. 
.TP 4
\fB --upgrade\fP
show demo for upgrading from SAPHanaSR to SAPHanaSR-angi.
.\"
.PP
.SH RETURN CODES
.B 0
Successful program execution.
.br
.B >0
Usage, syntax or execution errors.
.PP
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
\fB*\fP Copying the script to outside the package.
.PP
The script needs to be still available on both cluster nodes after the SAPHanaSR
RPM has been removed. Needs to be done on all cluster nodes.
.PP
.RS 2
# cp -a /usr/share/SAPHanaSR/samples/SAPHanaSR-upgrade-to-angi-demo /root/bin/
.br
# chmod 755 /root/bin/SAPHanaSR-upgrade-to-angi-demo
.br
# SAPHanaSR-upgrade-to-angi-demo --help
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Example for finding the HANA primary node.
.PP
.RS 2
# SAPHanaSR-showAttr --format=script |\\
.br
  awk -F/ '$3=="clone_state=\\"PROMOTED\\"" {print $2}'
.br
# crm_mon -1r | grep "* Masters: \\["
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Checking sane state of cluster.
.PP
This steps should be performed before doing anything with the cluster, and after
something has been done.
See also SAPHanaSR_upgrade_to_angi(7) and SAPHanaSR_maintenance_examples(7).
.PP
.RS 2
# cs_clusterstate -i
.br
# crm_mon -1r
.br
# crm configure show type:location | grep cli-
.br
# SAPHanaSR-showAttr
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Checking pre-requisites for the upgrade.
.PP
The scripts should be run on the HANA primary node before the upgrade. It also
could be run on the HANA secondary. Any error message should be investigated.
The check covers several requirements for the upgrade, but not all. On the other
hand, some of the pre-requisites are caused by limitations of the script
SAPHanaSR-upgrade-to-angi-demo itself. Those might not be needed for doing the
real upgrade manually. See also SAPHanaSR_upgrade_to_angi(7),
cs_show_error_patterns(8) and cs_show_cluster_patterns(8).
.PP
.RS 2
# SAPHanaSR-upgrade-to-angi-demo --check
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Demonstrating an upgrade.
.PP
HANA´s SID and instance number will be detected, as well as the names of both
cluster nodes. The names of cluster resources and constraints will be derived
from the CIB. Based on that information, command sequences will be proposed for
performing an upgrade: 
.br
- Collecting needed data.
.br
- Backing up old CIB, sudoers file and global.ini.
.br
- Setting HANA resource into maintenance mode.
.br
- Removing old rules from sudoers file on both nodes.
.br
- Removing old hook scripts from global.ini on both nodes.
.br
- Removing old cluster resources and constraints from CIB.
.br
- Removing old node attributes and SAPHanaSR properties from CIB.
.br
- Removing old SAPHanaSR package.
.br
- Adding new SAPHanaSR-angi package.
.br
- Adding new rules to sudoers file on both nodes.
.br
- Adding new hook scripts to global.ini on both nodes.
.br
- Adding new cluster resources and constraints to CIB.
.br
- Probing HANA resource status.
.br
- Setting HANA resource back to managed.
.PP
The script needs to be copied to all cluster nodes upfront. It should be called
on the HANA primary node. Before doing this, you should check and prepare
pre-requisites, see example above. The proposed commands need to be checked.
Sometimes adaptions are necessary.
See also SAPHanaSR_upgrade_to_angi(7).
.PP
.RS 2
# SAPHanaSR-upgrade-to-angi-demo --upgrade
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Drafting a runbook for the manual upgrade.
.PP
The script should be used on the HANA primary node.
Before doing this, you should check and prepare pre-requisites, see example
above. The runbook draft is stored as file "SAPHanaSR-upgrade-draft.txt".
This draft can be used for preparing details for the upgrade procedure. 
The proposed commands need to be checked. Sometimes adaptions are
necessary. Of course the result needs to be checked finally as well.
See also SAPHanaSR_upgrade_to_angi(7) and tee(1).
.PP
.RS 2
# SAPHanaSR-upgrade-to-angi-demo --upgrade | tee SAPHanaSR-upgrade-draft.txt
.br
# less SAPHanaSR-upgrade-draft.txt
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Demonstrating removal of package SAPHanaSR and its configuration.
.PP
Removing the old SAPHanaSR without performing the complete upgrade manually
might be useful, if installation and configuration of the new SAPHanaSR-angi
should be done by deploymant automation tools.
.PP
HANA´s SID and instance number will be detected, as well as the names of both
cluster nodes. The names of cluster resources and constraints will be derived
from the CIB. Based on that information, command sequences will be proposed for
performing the removal of SAPHanaSR:
.br
- Collecting needed data.
.br
- Backing up old CIB, sudoers file and global.ini.
.br
- Setting HANA resource into maintenance mode.
.br
- Removing old rules from sudoers file on both nodes.
.br
- Removing old hook scripts from global.ini on both nodes.
.br
- Removing old cluster resources and constraints from CIB.
.br
- Removing old node attributes and SAPHanaSR properties from CIB.
.br
- Removing old SAPHanaSR package.
.PP
The script needs to be copied to all cluster nodes beforehand. It should be
called on the HANA primary node. Before doing this, you should check and prepare
pre-requisites, see example above. The proposed commands need to be checked.
Sometimes adaptions are necessary. Of course the result needs to be checked
finally as well. See also SAPHanaSR_upgrade_to_angi(7).
.PP
.RS 2
# SAPHanaSR-upgrade-to-angi-demo --erase 
.RE
.PP
.\"
.SH FILES
.TP
/usr/share/SAPHanaSR-angi/samples/SAPHanaSR-upgrade-to-angi-demo
unsupported script for demonstrating the procedure on a test cluster
.TP
/etc/sudoers.d/SAPHanaSR
recommended place for sudo permissions of HADR provider hook scripts
.TP
/hana/shared/$SID/global/hdb/custom/config/global.ini
on-disk representation of HANA global system configuration
.TP
SAPHanaSR-upgrade-to-angi-demo.<timestamp>
directory with backup of old configuration
.PP
.\"
.SH REQUIREMENTS
.PP
* The initial configuration matches SUSE´s documented setup of the SAPHanaSR
scale-up performance-optimised scenario.
.br
* Linux cluster, HANA and system replication are in sane state before the
upgrade. All cluster nodes are online.
.br
* Package libxml2-tools is installed on both cluster nodes. Package ClusterTools2
is recommended.
.br
* SAPHanaSR-upgrade-to-angi-demo is copied into /root/bin/ and made executable
on both cluster nodes.
.br
* SAPHanaSR-upgrade-to-angi-demo is executed on the HANA primary node.
.br
* SAPHanaSR-upgrade-to-angi-demo should be run on test systems.
.br
* A backup has been made for the cluster nodes.
.br
* The commands suggested by SAPHanaSR-upgrade-to-angi-demo have been checked before
they will be applied.
.br
* For further requirements see manual page SAPHanaSR_upgrade_to_angi(7).
.PP
.\"
.SH BUGS
.br
In case of any problem, please use your favourite SAP support process to open a request for the component BC-OP-LNX-SUSE. Please report any other feedback and suggestions to feedback@suse.com.
.PP
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.br
\fBSAPHanaSR-angi\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR\fP(7) ,
\fBocf_suse_SAPHana\fP(7) , \fBocf_suse_SAPHanaController\fP(7) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR.py\fP(7) , \fBsusHanaSR.py\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR_upgrade_to_angi\fP(7) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR_maintenance_examples\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR-showAttr\fP(8) ,
\fBcrm\fP(8) , \fBcrm_mon\fP(8) , \fBcrm_attribute\fP(8) , \fBcibadmin\fP(8) ,
\fBcs_wait_for_idle\fP(8) ,
.br
https://documentation.suse.com/sbp/sap/ ,
.br
https://www.suse.com/c/tag/towardszerodowntime/
.PP
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
.br
A.Briel, F.Herschel, L.Pinne.
.PP
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.br
(c) 2024 SUSE LLC
.br
SAPHanaSR-upgrade-to-angi-demo comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
.br
For details see the GNU General Public License at
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
