.\" Version: 1.2
.\"
.TH SAPHanaSR 7 "14 Nov 2024" "" "SAPHanaSR_basic_cluster"
.\"
.SH NAME
SAPHanaSR_basic_cluster \- SAP HANA System Replication scale-up basic cluster configuration.
.PP
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The SAP HANA System Replication scale-up scenario needs a certain basic
cluster configuration. Besides this necessary settings, some additional
configurations might match specific needs. Adapting a few SAP HANA settings
might be beneficial as well.
.\"
.\" \fB* Corosync Basics\fR
.\"
.PP
\fB* CRM Basics\fR
.PP
\fBdefault-resource-stickiness = 1000\fR
.PP
The crm basic parameter default-resource-stickiness defines the 'stickiness'
score a resource gets on the node where it is currently running. This prevents
the cluster from moving resources around without an urgent need during a
cluster transition. The correct value depends on number of resources, colocation
rules and resource groups. Particularly additional groups colocated to the
HANA primary master resource can affect cluster decisions. 
Too high value might prevent not only unwanted but also useful actions.
This is because SAPHanaSR uses an internal scoring table for placing the HANA
roles on the right nodes.
.br
Mandatory, default 1.
.PP
\fBfailure-timeout = 86400\fR
.PP
The crm basic parameter failure-timeout defines how long failed actions will
be kept in the CIB. After that time the failure record will be deleted. The
time is measured in seconds. See also migration-threshold below.
.br
Optional, no default.
.PP
\fBmigration-threshold = 5000\fR
.PP
The crm basic parameter migration-threshold defines how many errors on a
resource can be detected before this resource will be migrated to another node.
See also \fBfailure-timeout\fR.
.br
Mandatory, default 3.
.PP
\fBrecord-pending = true\fR
.PP
The op_default record-pending defines, whether the intention of an action
upon the resource is recorded in the Cluster Information Base (CIB).
Setting this parameter to 'true' allows the user to see pending actions like
 'starting' and 'stopping' in \fBcrm_mon\fR and \fBHawk\fR.
.br
Optional, default false.
.PP
\fBpcmk_delay_max = 30\fR
.PP
The sbd stonith parameter pcmk_delay_max defines an upper limit for waiting
before a fencing/stonith request will be triggerd.
This parameter should prevent the cluster from unwanted double fencing in case
of spilt-brain. A value around 30 seconds is required in two-node clusters,
except priority fencing is used.
.br
Mandatory, default 5.
.PP
\fBpriority-fencing-delay = 30\fR
.PP
The optional crm property priority-fencing-delay specified delay for the
fencings that are targeting the lost nodes with the highest total resource
priority in case we do not have the majority of the nodes in our cluster
partition, so that the more significant nodes potentially win any fencing
match, which is especially meaningful under split-brain of 2-node cluster.
A promoted resource instance takes the base priority + 1 on calculation if
the base priority is not 0. Any delay that are introduced by pcmk_delay_max
configured for the corresponding fencing resources will be added to this
delay. A meta attribute priority=100 or alike for the SAPHanaController
primitive resource is needed to make this work. See ocf_suse_SAPHanaController(7).
The delay should be significantly greater than, or safely twice,
pcmk_delay_max.
.br
Optional, no default.
.PP
\fB* systemd Basics\fR
.PP
\fBsaphostagent.service enabled\fR
.br
\fBSAP${SID}_${INO}.service enabled\fR
.PP
In case systemd-style init is used for the HANA database, the services
saphostagent and SAP${SID}_${INO} need to be enabled and running inside the SAP
slice. The instance profile Autostart feature needs to be off.
The service saptune is highly recommended, see manual page saptune(8).
.PP
\fB* pacemaker service dependency to SAP instance service\fR
.PP
\fB[Unit]\fR
.br
\fBWants=SAP${SID}_${INO}.service\fR
.br
\fBAfter=SAP${SID}_${INO}.service\fR
.PP
In case systemd-style init is used for the HANA database, it might be desired
to have the SAP instance service stopping after pacemaker at system shutdown.
Therefor a drop-in file for the pacemaker service might help. See examples below.
.PP
\fB* pacemaker service basics\fR
.PP
\fBPCMK_fail_fast = yes\fR
.PP
The parameter PCMK_fail_fast in /etc/sysconfig/pacemaker specifies how pacemaker
reacts on failures of its subdaemons. Default "no" means to restart failed
subdaemons, while "yes" means fencing the node. Setting "yes" might help to avoid
undefined situations.
.br
Optional, default no
.PP
\fB* SAP HANA Basics\fR
.PP
\fB/usr/sap/${SID}/SYS/global/hdb/custom/config/global.ini\fR
.PP
\fB[memorymanager]\fR
.br
\fBfinal_memory_release_shutdown = [ auto | on | off ]\fR
.br
\fBfinal_memory_release_crash = [ auto | on | off ]\fR
.PP
Starting with SAP HANA 2.0 SPS06, the database shutdown can be accelerated by
optimizing memory de-allocation. Please refer to SAP documentation before setting
this parameters.
.\" TODO SAP notes 3405297 ?
.PP
\fB/usr/sap/${SID}/SYS/global/hdb/custom/config/daemon.ini\fR
.PP
\fB[daemon]\fR
.br
\fBterminationtimeout = [ \fImillisec\fB ]\fR
.br
\fBforcedterminationtimeout = [ \fImillisec\fB ]\fR
.PP
The first parameter defines the timeout from sending SIGTERM to finally terminating
child processes when HANA is shutting down by the STOP event. Used also as maximal
delay in system restart if 'restartterminationtimeout' parameter is not set.
The second defines the timeout from sending the SIGTERM to finally terminating
child processes when HANA is shutting down by the QUIT event.
Please refer to SAP documentation before setting this parameters.
.\" TODO check above
.PP
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
\fB* crm basic configuration\fR
.PP
Below is an example crm basic configuration for SAPHanaSR. Shown are
specific parameters which are needed. Some general parameters are left out.
.PP
The following example is for 15 SP5 with disk-based SBD:
.PP
.RS 2
.br
property cib-bootstrap-options: \\
.br
 have-watchdog=true \\
.br
 cluster-infrastructure=corosync \\
.br
 cluster-name=hacluster \\
.br
 stonith-enabled=true \\
.br
 placement-strategy=balanced \\
.br
 stonith-timeout=144 \\
.br
rsc_defaults rsc-options: \\
.br
.\" TODO resource-stickiness=120 or 1000?
 resource-stickiness=1000 \\
.br
 migration-threshold=3 \\
.br
 failure-timeout=86400
.br
op_defaults op-options: \\
.br
 timeout=600 \\
.br
 record-pending=true
.RE
.PP
\fB* crm simple SBD stonith configuration\fR
.PP
To complete the SBD setup, it is necessary to activate SBD as STONITH/fencing
mechanism in the CIB. The SBD is normally used for SAPHanaSR scale-up
instead of any other fencing/stonith mechanism. Example for a basic disk-based
SBD resource:
.PP
.RS 2
primitive rsc_stonith_sbd stonith:external/sbd \\
.br
 params pcmk-delay-max=30
.RE
.PP
\fB* crm priority fencing SBD stonith configuration\fR
.PP
.\" TODO priority fencing for two-node cluster, rsc_SAPHana_... meta priority=100
Example for a priority fencing disk-based SBD resource.
.PP
.RS 2
.br
primitive rsc_stonith_sbd stonith:external/sbd \\
.br
 params pcmk-delay-max=15 \\
.br
property cib-bootstrap-options: \\
.br
 priority-fencing-delay=30
.RE
.PP
\fB* crm simple IP address resource configuration\fR
.PP
Let the Linux cluster manage one IP address and move that address along with
the HANA primary master nameserver. Interval and timeout are set for friendly
conditions.
.PP
.RS 2
.br
primitive rsc_ip_SLE_HDB00 IPaddr2 \\
.br
 op monitor interval=10 timeout=20 \\
.br
 params ip=192.168.178.188
.br
colocation col_ip_with_SLE_HDB00 \\
.br
 2000: rsc_ip_SLE_HDB00:Started mst_SAPHanaCon_SLE_HDB00:Promoted
.RE
.PP
\fB* crm protective IP address resource configuration\fR
.PP
Let the Linux cluster manage one IP address. The resource should tolerate short
absence of (virtual) network cards. If a monitor and the resulting start fails,
the node should get fenced. This protects against risk of HANA dual-primary.
A colocation constraint between this IP address resource and the HANA primary
master nameserver is needed as well, see respective examples.
.PP
.RS 2
.br
primitive rsc_ip_SLE_HDB00 IPaddr2 \\
.br
 op monitor interval=30 timeout=60 \\
.br
 op start timeout=90 on-fail=fence \\
.\" TODO on-fail=standby?
.br
 params ip=192.168.178.188 cidr_netmask=32
.RE
.PP
This configuration might be used in public cloud environments where virtual NICs
might be expected to disappear temporarily. Of course, it would be better to not
let NICs dissapear in production. I.e. by adding redundancy to the network or by
setting the cluster into maintenance.
.PP
.\" TODO \fB crm IP address colocation for seamless maintenance
.\" .PP
.\" The IP address is moved along with the HANA primary master nameserver.
.\" The location is determined from the hana_<sid>_roles attribute.
.\" classic: location loc_ip_with_SAPHana rsc_ip_HXE_HDB00 rule 3000: hana_hxe_roles eq 4:P:master1:master:worker:master
.\" .PP
\fB* crm IP address for active/active read-enabled resource configuration\fR
.PP
Let the Linux cluster manage an additional IP address and move that address
along with the HANA secondary master nameserver.
.\" TODO multi-node see below
.PP
.RS 2
.br
primitive rsc_ip_ro_SLE_HDB00 IPaddr2 \\
.br
 op monitor interval=10 timeout=20 \\
.br
 params ip=192.168.178.199
.br
colocation col_ip_ro_with_secondary_SLE_HDB00 \\
.br
 2000: rsc_ip_ro_SLE_HDB00:Started mst_SAPHanaCon_SLE_HDB00:Demoted
.br
location loc_ip_ro_not_master_SLE_HDB00 \\
.br
 rsc_ip_ro_SLE_HDB00 \\
.br
 rule -inf: hana_sle_roles ne master1:master:worker:master
.\" TODO works this for multi-node:  rule 8000: score eq 100
.RE
.PP
\fB* crm grouped IP address resource configuration\fR
.PP
Let the Linux cluster manage one IP address and move that address along
with the HANA primary master nameserver. An auxiliary resource is needed
for specific public cloud purpose.
.PP
You should not bind resource to the HANA master role. This would change the
effective resource scoring and might prevent the cluster from taking expected
actions. If, for any reason, you need to bind additional resource to the
HANA resource, you need to reduce that additional resource´s stickiness to 1.
.PP
.RS 2
.br
primitive rsc_ip_SLE_HDB00 IPaddr2 \\
.br
 op monitor interval=10s timeout=20s \\
.br
 params ip=192.168.178.188 cidr_netmask=32
.br
primitive rsc_lb_SLE_HDB00 azure-lb \\
.br
 params port=62502
.br
group grp_ip_SLE_HDB00 rsc_lb_SLE_HDB00 rsc_ip_SLE_HDB00 \\
.br
 meta resource-stickiness=1
.br
colocation col_ip_with_SLE_HDB00 \\
.br
 8000: grp_ip_SLE_HDB00:Started mst_SAPHanaCon_SLE_HDB00:Promoted
.RE
.PP
\fB* crm MailTo resource configuration\fR
.PP
The HANA landscape status is stored inside CIB as attribute hana_<sid>_roles.
A healthy HANA master looks like "master1:master:worker:master".
First field is the HANA landscape status. If that status goes to 3 or 2,
something has happened to HANA, but the cluster will not perform a takeover.
Status 1 will trigger a takeover, status 0 indicates an undefined fatal failure.
See manual pages ocf_suse_SAPHanaController(7) and ocf_heartbeat_MailTo(7). 
.PP
You could define a MailTo resource that informs you as soon as attribute
hana_<sid>_roles deviates from above ideal:
.PP
.RS 2
primitive rsc_mailto_HA1_HDB10 MailTo \\
.br
 params email="root@localhost" subject="hana_ha1_roles changed" \\
.br
 op monitor timeout=10 interval=30 depth=0 \\
.br
location loc_mailto_HA1_HDB10_with_sane rsc_mailto_HA1_HDB10 \\
.br
 rule 90000: hana_ha1_roles eq master1:master:worker:master
.br
colocation col_mailto_HA1_HDB10_with_prim \\
.br
 3000: rsc_mailto_HA1_HDB10:Started mst_SAPHanaCon_HA1_HDB10:Promoted
.\" TODO fix above
.RE
.PP
\fB* check how resource stickiness affects promotion scoring\fR
.PP
SAPHanaSR uses an internal scoring table. The promotion scores for HANA
primary and secondary master are in a certain range. The scores used by the
Linux cluster should be in the same range.
.PP
.RS 2
.br
# SAPHanaSR-showAttr | grep master.:master
.br
# crm_simulate -Ls | grep promotion
.RE
.PP
\fB* clean up SDB stonith resource after write failure\fR
.PP
In rare cases the SBD stonith resource fails writing to the block device.
After the root cause has been found and fixed, the failure message can be
cleaned.
.PP
.RS 2
.br
# stonith_admin --cleanup --history=<originator_node>
.RE
.PP
\fB* check saphostagent and show SAP instances\fR
.PP
Basic check for the saphostagent.
.PP
.RS 2
# /usr/sap/hostctrl/exe/saphostctrl -function Ping
.br
# /usr/sap/hostctrl/exe/saphostctrl -function ListInstances
.RE
.PP
\fB* check systemd services for the HANA database\fR
.PP
In case systemd-style init is used for the HANA database, the services can be
checked. Example SID is HA1, instance number is 10.
.PP
.RS 2
.br
# systemctl list-unit-files | grep -i sap
.br
# systemctl status SAPHA1_10.service
.br
# systemd-cgls -u SAP.slice
.br
# systemd-cgls -u SAPHA1_10.service
.br
# systemctl show SAPHA1_10.service
.\" TODO check Autostart not set.
.RE
.PP
\fB* show pacemaker service drop-in file\fR
.PP
In case systemd-style init is used for the HANA database, it might be desired
to have the  SAP instance service stopping after pacemaker at system shutdown.
A drop-in file might help. Example SID is S07, instance number is 00.
.PP
.RS 2
# cat /etc/systemd/system/pacemaker.service.d/00-pacemaker.conf
.br
[Unit]
.br
Description=pacemaker needs SAP instance service
.br
Documentation=man:SAPHanaSR_basic_cluster(7)
.br
Wants=SAPS07_00.service
.br
After=SAPS07_00.service
.RE
.PP
\fB* check for pacemaker dependency to SAP instance service\fR
.PP
Example SID is S07, instance number is 00.
.PP
.RS 2
# systemctl show pacemaker.service | grep SAPS07_00
.br
# systemd-delta | grep pacemaker
.br
# systemd-analyze dot | grep "pacemaker.*SAPS07_00"
.RE
.PP
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
In case of any problem, please use your favourite SAP support process to open
a request for the component BC-OP-LNX-SUSE.
Please report any other feedback and suggestions to feedback@suse.com.
.PP
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBocf_suse_SAPHanaTopology\fP(7) , \fBocf_suse_SAPHanaController\fP(7) ,
\fBocf_suse_SAPHanaFilesystem\fP(7) , \fBocf_heartbeat_IPaddr2\fP(7) ,
\fBocf_heartbeat_MailTo\fP(7) ,
\fBsbd\fP(8) , \fBstonith_sbd\fP(7) , \fBstonith_admin\fP(8) ,
\fBcrm_no_quorum_policy\fP(7) , \fBcrm\fP(8) , \fBcrm_simulate\fP(8) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR-showAttr\fP(7) ,
\fBcorosync.conf\fP(5) , \fBvotequorum\fP(5) ,
\fBnfs\fP(5) , \fBmount\fP(8) , \fBsystemctl\fP(1) ,
\fBsystemd-cgls\fP(1) , \fBsystemd-analyze\fP(1) , \fBsystemd-delta\fP(1) ,
\fBha_related_suse_tids\fP(7) , \fBha_related_sap_notes\fP(7) ,
.br
https://documentation.suse.com/sbp/sap/ ,
.br
https://documentation.suse.com/sles-sap/ ,
.br
https://www.suse.com/support/kb/ ,
.br
https://www.clusterlabs.org
.PP
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
A.Briel, F.Herschel, L.Pinne.
.PP
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
(c) 2018 SUSE Linux GmbH, Germany.
.br
(c) 2019-2024 SUSE LLC
.br
For details see the GNU General Public License at
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
