.\" Version: 1.2 
.\"
.TH SAPHanaSR-showStatus 8 "16 Feb 2026" "" "SAPHanaSR"
.\"
.SH NAME
.\"
SAPHanaSR-showStatus \- Shows status for Linux cluster and SAP HANA.
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"
\fBSAPHanaSR-showStatus\fR [--help | --version]
.br
\fBSAPHanaSR-showStatus\fR --watch
.br
\fBSAPHanaSR-showStatus\fR
.PP
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"
SAPHanaSR-showStatus shows the status for Linux cluster and SAP HANA.
Basically it combines crm_mon, SAPHanaSR-showAttr and cs_clusterstate.
For details on shown cluster objects and HANA attributes, please refer
to manual pages crm_mon(8) and SAPHanaSR-showAttr(8).
.PP
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.\"
\fB*\fP Show status for Linux cluster and SAP HANA once.
.PP
.RS 2
# SAPHanaSR-showStatus
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Continuously show status for Linux cluster and SAP HANA.
.PP
This might be convenient when performing administrative actions or cluster tests.
It does not replace detailled status checks.
See also SAPHanaSR_maintenance_examples(8).
.PP
.RS 2
# SAPHanaSR-showStatus -w
.RE
.PP
.\"
.SH REQUIREMENTS
.\"
Package ClusterTools2 installed.
See also REQUIREMENTS section in SAPHanaSR-angi(7).
.PP
.\"
.SH BUGS
.\"
Formatting and content of this script's output will change, since this script
is under development.
.br
In case of any problem, please use your favourite SAP support process to open
a request for the component BC-OP-LNX-SUSE.
.\" TODO Please report any other feedback and suggestions to feedback@suse.com.
.PP
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.\"
\fBSAPHanaSR-angi\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR-ScaleOut\fP(7) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR-ScaleOut-XSA\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR_with_DR_HA\fP(7) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR-showAttr\fP(8) , \fBSAPHanaSR-replay-archive\fP(8) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR_maintenance_examples\fP(8) ,
\fBwatch\fP(1) , \fBcrm_mon\fP(8) , \fBcrm_simulate\fP(8) , \fBcrm\fP(8) ,
\fBcs_clusterstate\fP(8) , \fBcs_show_saphanasr_status\fP(8) ,
\fBcs_show_hana_info\fP(8) ,
.PP
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
.\"
F.Herschel, L.Pinne.
.PP
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.\"
(c) 2026 SUSE LLC
.br
SAPHanaSR-showStatus comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
.br
For details see the GNU General Public License at
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
