.\" Version: 1.2
.\"
.TH SAPHanaSR-ScaleUp-CostOpt 7 "20 Feb 2026" "" "SAPHanaSR"
.\"
.SH NAME
.\"
SAPHanaSR-ScaleUp-CostOpt \- Automating SAP HANA system replication for scale-up
cost-optimised setups.
.PP
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"
This manual page provides information for setting up and managing automation of
SAP HANA system replication (SR) in scale-up cost-optimised setups.
.PP
An HANA database is replicating data to another HANA database on a second site.
In the cost-optimised scenario, the second site is also used for a stand-alone
non-replicated HANA database. The productive secondary HANA on this node must be
limited in using system resources.
The scale-up cost-optimised scenario can be noted as
.br
[ A' => B,Q ]
.PP
Whenever a takeover is needed, the non-replicated HANA must be stopped first. 
Thus, the takeover needs longer than in the performance-optimised setup.
The cluster automates one single takeover in case of a failed primary.
After that happened, the initial state needs to be restored by an administrative
procedure.
.\" TODO
.PP
The scale-up cost-optimised setup relies on SAP HANA HA/DR hook provider method
postTakeover(). Please refer to manual page susTkOver.py(7) for details.
More requirements are listed in the REQUIREMENTS section below.
.PP
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.\"
\fB*\fP Example SAPHanaController resources in a cost-optimised scenario.
.PP
The first SAP HANA resource is a multi-state pair of production HANAs with a system
replication (e.g. PRD), managed by the SAPHanaController RA. See manual page
SAPHanaController-scale-up(7). The second SAP HANA is a single test HANA (e.g. TST)
running together with the productive HANA secondary on the same node. This second
-single- HANA is managed as a primitive resource by the SAPInstance RA, see
respective example below. Of course, a SAPHanaTopology clone resource is needed
to make this work. See manual page ocf_suse_SAPHanaToplogy(7). It is also necessary
to prepare an HANA HA/DR hook script for adjusting the secondary  HANA's memory
in case of sr_takeover. See manual page susCostOpt.py(7) and URLs below. Finally,
the SAPHanaController primary gets a priority to allow priority fencing. See manual
page SAPHanaSR_basic_cluster(7).
Example SID is PRD, instance number is 10.
.PP
.RS 2
primitive rsc_SAPHanaCon_PRD_HDB10 ocf:suse:SAPHanaController \\
.br
 op start interval="0" timeout="3600" \\
.br
 op stop interval="0" timeout="600" \\
.br
 op promote interval="0" timeout="900" \\
.br
 op demote interval="0" timeout="320" \\
.br
 op monitor interval="60" role="Promoted" timeout="700" \\
.br
 op monitor interval="61" role="Started" timeout="700" \\
.br
 params SID="PRD" InstanceNumber="10" PREFER_SITE_TAKEOVER="false" \\
.br
 DUPLICATE_PRIMARY_TIMEOUT="7200" AUTOMATED_REGISTER="false" \\
.br
 ON_FAIL_ACTION="proceed" \\
.br
 meta priority=100
.PP
clone mst_SAPHanaCon_PRD_HDB10 rsc_SAPHanaCon_PRD_HDB10 \\
.br
 meta clone-max="2" clone-node-max="1 interleave="true" promotable="true"
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Example SAPInstance resource in a cost-optimised scenario.
.PP
The second SAP HANA is a single test HANA (e.g. TST) running together with the
productive HANA secondary on the same node. This second -single- HANA is managed
as a primitive resource by the SAPInstance RA.
See manual page ocf_heartbeat_SAPInstance(7).
Example SID for the replicated instance is PRD, instance number is 10.
Example SID for the single instance is TST, instance number is 20, node is node02.
.\" TODO
.PP
.RS 2
primitive rsc_SAPInstance_TST_HDB20_node02 ocf:heartbeat:SAPInstance \\
.br
 params InstanceName="TST_HDB20_node02 \\
.br
 MONITOR_SERVICES="hdbindexserver|hdbnameserver" \\
.br
 START_PROFILE="/usr/sap/TST/SYS/profile/TST_HDB20_node02" \\
.br
 op start interval="0" timeout="1200" \\
.br
 op monitor interval="120" timeout="700" \\
.br
 op stop interval="0" timeout="600"
.PP
location loc_TST_never_on_node01 rsc_SAPInstance_TST_HDB20_node02 -inf: \\
.br
 node01
.PP
location loc_TST_never_with_PRD_promoted rsc_SAPInstance_TST_HDB20 \\
.br
 rule -inf: hana_prd_clone_state eq PROMOTED
.PP
colocation col_TST_never_with_PRD_ip -inf: \\ 
.br 
 rsc_SAPInstance_TST_HDB20_node02:Started rsc_ip_PRD_HDB10
.PP
order ord_TST_stop_before_PRD_promote mandatory: \\
.br
 rsc_SAPInstance_TST_HDB20_node02:stop mst_SAPHanaCon_PRD_HDB10:promote
.RE
.PP
* Example IPaddr2 resource in a cost-optimised scenario.
.PP
Please find examples on IPaddr2 resource configuration for the replicated SAP
HANA database in manual page SAPHanaSR_basic_cluster(7). 
.PP
\fB*\fP Recovery procedure for reverting to normal operation after takeover.
.PP
An overview on reverting to normal operation after takeover is given in manual
page susCostOpt.py(7).
.PP
.\"
.SH FILES
.\"
.TP
/usr/lib/ocf/resource.d/suse/SAPHanaController
SAPHanaController resource agent
.TP
/usr/lib/ocf/resource.d/suse/SAPHanaTopology
SAPHanaTopology resource agent
.TP
/usr/lib/ocf/resource.d/heartbeat/SAPInstance
SAPInstance resource agent
.TP
/usr/share/SAPHanaSR-angi/susHanaSR.py
always mandatory HA/DR provider hook script
.TP
/usr/share/SAPHanaSR-angi/susCostOpt.py
specific HA/DR provider hook script
.TP
/usr/sap/$SID/$InstanceName/exe
default path for DIR_EXECUTABLE
.TP
/usr/sap/$SID/SYS/profile
default path for DIR_PROFILE
.TP
/usr/sap/$SID/home/.hdb/$HOST/
path to HANA user keystore
.TP
/usr/sap/$SID/$InstanceName/$HOST/trace
path to HANA tracefiles
.\" TODO
.PP
.\"
.SH REQUIREMENTS
.\"
.\" TODO memory sizing
\fB*\fP The single (non-replicated) HANA database needs a global_allocation_limit
aligned with the productive (replicated) secondary HANA requirements.
Please refer to SAP documentation for details.
.PP
\fB*\fP The productive (replicated) secondary HANA database must be limited in
using system resources. Particularly the global_allocation_limit has to be set.
Also table preload must be switched off, and the activ/read-enabled feature must
not be used. Please refer to SAP documentation for details.
.PP
\fB*\fP SAP HANA Multi-SID (also MCOS) setup must not be used with the cost-optimised
setup.
.PP
\fB*\fP The so-called conservative configuration variant fits well.
In addition, SAPHanaController PREFER_SITE_TAKEOVER=false might be used.
See manual page SAPHanaController-scale-up(7).
.PP
\fB*\fP The SAP HANA scale-up cost-optimised scenario can benefit from HANA´s
persistent memory features. Local restart and takeover are affected by the time
HANA needs for shutdown and loading column store. 
.PP
\fB*\fP The cluster automates one single takeover in case of a failed primary.
After that happened, the initial state needs to be restored by an administrative
procedure.
.\" TODO re-registration and start of single instance
.PP

.\" TODO multi-target tihrd on production primary
.PP
See also REQUIREMENTS section of susCostOp.py(7) and SAPHanaSR(7).
.PP
\"
.SH BUGS
.\"
In case of any problem, please use your favourite SAP support process to open
a request for the component BC-OP-LNX-SUSE.
.\" TODO Please report any other feedback and suggestions to feedback@suse.com.
.PP
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.\"
\fBSAPHanaSR-angi\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR-angi-scenarios\fP(7) ,
\fBSAPHanaController-scale-up\fP(7) , \fBocf_suse_SAPHanaTopology\fP(7) ,
\fBocf_heartbeat_SAPInstance\fP(7) ,
\fBsusCostOpt.py\fP(7) , \fBsusHanaSR.py\fP(7) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR_basic_cluster\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR_multi-target\fP(7) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR_maintenance_examples\fP(7) ,
.PP
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
.\"
A.Briel, F.Herschel, L.Pinne.
.PP
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.\"
(c) 2025-2026 SUSE LLC
.br
The package SAPHanaSR-angi comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
.br
For details see the GNU General Public License at
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"

