.\" Version: 1.2 
.\"
.TH SAPHanaSR-CostOpt_setup 7 "02 Jun 2026" "" "SAPHanaSR-angi"
.\"
.SH NAME
. \"
SAPHanaSR-CostOpt_setup \- SAPHanaSR scale-up cost-optimised scenario setup procedure.
.PP
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\"
SAP allows to run a non-replicated instance of HANA in parallel to the replication
secondary on the pre-defined takeover site. This non-replicated database could
be a development system or alike. In case of failing primary HANA the cluster first
tries to restart the failed database locally. If the restart is not possible a
takeover to the other site will be triggered. In that case the secondary HANA on
the takeover node is promoted after shutdown of the non-replicated HANA.
This scenario can be noted as
.br
[ A' => B,Q ]
.\" .PP
.\" Please refer to manual page SAPHanaSR-angi-scenarios(7) for the scenario notation.
.PP
Less memory for the secondary HANA is needed when running this cost-optimised
scenario, compared to the performance-optimised scenario. On the other hand you
get a more complex setup and a slower takeover.
.PP
While the resource agents SAPHanaController and SAPHanaTopology are driving the
automation of the HANA system replication (A=>B), SAPInstance is used for the
non-replicated HANA database (Q).
The automated shutdown of the non-replicated HANA database is achieved by cluster
rules. More precisely, it is an anti-colocation of HANA promoted versus HANA
non-replicated. This means if the primary HANA system fails, the anti-colocation
rules for the HANA non-replicated system are triggered and the SAPInstance resource
agent shuts down the non-replicated HANA database.
.PP
The cluster only allows a takeover to the secondary site if the HANA system
replication was in sync until the point when the service of the primary got lost.
This ensures that the last commits processed on the primary site are already
available at the secondary site.
.PP
The cluster automates one single takeover in case of a failed primary. After that
happened, the initial state needs to be restored by the administrative procedure
outlined in manual page susCostOpt.py(7).
.PP
This manual page provides information about installing and customising an HA
for HANA cost-optimised scenario. The whole procedure is organised in phases:
.RS 2
1. Planning the installation
.br
2. Setting up the operating system
.br
3. Installing the HANA databases on both cluster nodes
.br
4. Setting up HANA system replication)
.br
5. Setting up HANA HA/DR providers
.br
6. Configuring the cluster
.br
7. Testing the cluster
.RE
.PP
For requirement details, please refer to the REQUIREMENTS section in manual pages
susCostOpt.py(7) and SAPHanaSR(7).
.PP
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.\"
The examples are outlining highlevel procedures as well as describing basic tasks.
Detailled runbooks can be created by using the appropriate tasks for adding details
to the procedures.
.PP
\fB*\fP Planning the installation
.PP
.RS 2

.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Setting up the operating system
.PP
.RS 2

.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Installing the HANA databases on both cluster nodes
.PP
.RS 2

.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Setting up HANA system replication
.PP
.RS 2

.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Setting up HANA HA/DR providers
.PP
.RS 2

.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Configuring the cluster
.PP
.RS 2

.RE
.PP
\fB*\fP Testing the cluster
.PP
.RS 2

.RE
.PP
.\"
.SH FILES
.\"
.TP
/usr/share/SAPHanaSR-angi/susCostOpt.py
the hook provider, delivered with the RPM
.TP
/hana/shared/$SID/global/hdb/custom/config/global.ini
on-disk representation of HANA global system configuration
.TP
/usr/sap/$SID/home/.hdb/$HOST/
path to HANA user keystore
.TP
/usr/sap/$SID/HDB$nr/$HOST/trace
path to HANA tracefiles
.PP
.\"
.SH REQUIREMENTS
.\"
See REQUIREMENTS section in manual pages susCostOpt.py(7) and SAPHanaSR(7).
.PP
.\"
.SH BUGS
.\"
In case of any problem, please use your favourite SAP support process to open
a request for the component BC-OP-LNX-SUSE.
.\" TODO Please report any other feedback and suggestions to feedback@suse.com.
.PP
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.\"
\fBSAPHanaSR-angi\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR-angi-scenarios\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR\fP(7) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR_basic_cluster\fP(7) , \fBsusCostOpt.py\fP(7) , \fBsusHanaSR.py\fP(7) ,
\fBSAPHanaController-scale-up\fP(7) ,
\fBocf_heartbeat_SAPInstance\fP(7) , \fBocf_heartbeat_IPaddr2\fP(7) , 
.br
https://documentation.suse.com/sbp/sap/ ,
.br
https://www.suse.com/c/suse-ha-for-sap-hana-scale-up-cost-optimized-improved/ ,
.br
./" TODO: link to current HANA version
https://help.sap.com/viewer/6b94445c94ae495c83a19646e7c3fd56/2.0.05/en-US/5447545b91a04cf8a0d6133a026f2be5.html
.PP
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
.\"
A.Briel, F.Herschel, L.Pinne.
.PP
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.\"
(c) 2026 SUSE LLC
.br
The package SAPHanaSR-angi comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
.br
For details see the GNU General Public License at
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\" 
