.\" Version: 1.2 
.\"
.TH SAPHanaSR-showAttr 8 "06 Feb 2025" "" "SAPHanaSR"
.\"
.SH NAME
SAPHanaSR-showAttr \- Shows Linux cluster attributes for SAP HANA system replication.
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBSAPHanaSR-showAttr\fR [ --help | --version ]
.br
\fBSAPHanaSR-showAttr\fR [ --sid \fISID\fR ] [ --select \fISELECT\fR ]
[ --sort \fISORT\fR ] [ --format \fIFORMAT\fR ] [ --cib \fIOFFLINE_CIB_FILE\fR [...] ] [ --from \fIDATE\fR ] [ --to \fIDATE\fR ] [ --properties \fIPROPERTIES_FILE\fR ]
.PP
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
SAPHanaSR-showAttr shows Linux cluster attributes for SAP HANA system replication automation.
The overall system replication (SR) state is shown as well as the HANA state
on each node.
Because the HANA srHook methods srConnectionChanged() and preTakeover() are
used, respective information shows up as well.
The information is fetched from the Linux cluster information base (CIB), not
from HANA directly.
Fields to be shown can be specified by pre-defined selections via command line option.
.PP
The output shows four sections, containing all or some of the listed
fields:
.TP
Global section
.br
global (\fBGlobal\fP)
.br
sequence number of record (\fBcib-update\fP)
.br
maintenance status of Linux cluster (\fBmaintenance\fP)
.br
filter for resource agent logging (\fBfilter\fP)
.br
.\" TODO Linux cluster scale-out multi-target support (\fBmts\fP)
.\" .br
designated coordinater node id (\fBdcid\fP)
.br
HANA primary replication site (\fBprim\fP)
.br
HANA secondary replication site (\fBsec\fP)
.br
HANA system identifier (\fBsid\fP)
.br
.\" TODO Linux cluster update status (\fBupd\fP)
.\" .br
HANA topology (\fBtopology\fP)
.TP
Resources section
.br
name of Linux cluster resources (\fBResources\fP)
.br
maintenance status of Linux cluster resources (\fBmaintenance\fP)
.br
promotability of Linux cluster clone resources (\fBpromotable\fP)
.br
target role of the Linux cluster resources (\fBtarget-role\fP)
.TP
Sites section
HANA site name (\fBSites\fP)
.br
SAPHanaSR last primary timestamp (\fBlpt\fP)
.br
HANA landscape status (\fBlss\fP)
.br
HANA current master nameserver for that site (\fBmns\fP)
.br
HANA replication operation mode (\fBopMode\fP)
.br
HANA system replication status from srConnectionChanged() (\fBsrHook\fP)
.br
HANA system replication mode (\fBsrMode\fP)
.br
HANA system replication status from RA monitor (\fBsrPoll\fP)
.br
HANA system replication role (\fBsrr\fP)
.TP
Hosts section
.br
Linux hostname (\fBHosts\fP)
.br
state of the Linux cluster resource (\fBclone_state\fP)
.br
actual and configured roles for HANA on that node (\fBroles\fP)
.br
actual master score on that node (\fBscore\fP)
.br
.\" TODO generation of resource agent (\fBgra\fP)
.\" .br
.\" TODO generation of srHook (\fBgsh\fP)
.\" .br
HANA site where the host sits (\fBsite\fP)
.br
maintenance state of Linux cluster node (\fBstandby\fP)
.br
HANA system replication takeover action from preTakeover() (\fBsra\fP)
.br
HANA system replication takeover action history (\fBsrah\fP)
.br
Linux cluster node fence status (\fBterminate\fP)
.br
HANA version (\fBversion\fP)
.br
HANA virtual host name (\fBvhost\fP)
.br
.PP
Some fields are generated dynamically from the CIB. That fields are missing,
if no corresponding attribute exists, e.g. the standby field.
An incomplete compilation on field details and purpose follows below.
.\" TODO formatting below. better no indents, but bold item header?
.\" TODO check details for Scale-Out
.PP
.B Global
- the string global

Value: global

The Global field is used as root for the whole data structure.
The Global section shows overall information on the system.
.PP
.B Hosts
- Linux hostname

Value: [ \fIHOSTNAME\fR ]

Hostnames of HANA nodes managed by the Linux cluster.
The hostname has to follow UNIX RFC 1178. Additional rules specific to SAP
apply. E.g. length of hostname is limited to 13 characters.
.\" TODO SAP note.
,\" TODO HANA installation guide says: 64 chars
.\" https://help.sap.com/docs/SAP_HANA_PLATFORM/2c1988d620e04368aa4103bf26f17727/a11bb836086748ae98d7d4bc1efdc79f.html
.\" TODO still using remoteHost?
See also the fields remoteHost and vhost.
The Hosts section shows one line per host, containing details on that host and
the HANA instance there. 
.PP
.B Resources
- name of Linux cluster resources

Value:  [ \fIRESOURCENAME\fR ]

Name of the multi-state resource controlled by SAPHanaController, occasionally
also the clone resource SAPHanaTopology. 
The Resources section shows the HANA cluster resources and their cluster
maintenance attribute´s status.
.PP
.B Sites
- HANA site

Value: [ \fIHANA_SITE\fR ]

The HANA sites are detected by SAPHanaTopology. Two sites are managed by the Linux cluster.
Optionally a third site could be connected thru multi-target system replication outside the cluster. 
The Sites section shows information on the sites known to the Linux cluster and the
HANA system replication status. 
.PP
.B clone_state
- clone state of the Linux cluster resource

Value: [ PROMOTED | DEMOTED | UNDEFINED | WAITING4LPA | WAITING4PRIM | WAITING4NODES | WAITING4REG ]

.\" TODO: what kind of attribute?
This variable is set by the SAPHanaController resource agent.
.br
PROMOTED marks on scale-up the master state of an instance, which makes an HANA
SR primary. On scale-out it indicates the master nameserver of the primary site.
.br
DEMOTED makes on scale-up an HANA SR secondary.
On scale-out all running nodes except the primary master nameserver are marked
as DEMOTED. The DEMOTED state can be transient, on the way to promoting.
.br
WAITING4LPA indicates potential risk of a dual primary situation.
The cluster is waiting for DUPLICATE_PRIMARY_TIMEOUT seconds before registering
the former HANA primary as new secondary.
.br
WAITING4PRIM indicates the cluster is waiting for the HANA primary becoming ready
in order to register the HANA secondary.
.br
WAITING4NODES indicates on scale-out that not enough nodes are available to
bring up a functional site, according to the HANA landscape configuration.
.br
WAITING4REG indicates potential risk of a dual primary situation.
The cluster is waiting for the administrator to manually register the former
HANA primary as new secondary.
.br
See also AUTOMATED_REGISTER and DUPLICATE_PRIMARY_TIMEOUT in ocf_suse_SAPHanaController(7).
.PP
.\" TODO used with SAPHanaSR-angi?
.\" .B gra
.\" - generation of resource agent
.\" 
.\" Value: [ \fIgeneration\fR ]
.\" 
.\" The RA generation attribute identifies which generation of the RA is running.
.\" It helps determining RA's capabilities and performing cluster-wide upgrades of
.\" RA and srHook. The generation should be same for both on all nodes of the
.\" Linux cluster after successful upgrade.
.\" See also gsh below and SAPHanaSR-manageAttr(8).
.\" .PP
.\" .B gsh
.\" - generation of srHook
.\" 
.\" Value: [ \fIgeneration\fR ]
.\" 
.\" The srHook generation attribute identifies which generation of the srHook is running.
.\" It helps determining srHook's capabilities and performing cluster-wide upgrades of
.\" RA and srHook. E.g. starting with generation 2.0 the RA supports scale-out
.\" multi-target system replication, which needs replacement of the old SAPHanaSR.py
.\" by new SAPHanaSrMultiTarget.py.
.\" See also gra above and SAPHanaSR-manageAttr(8).
.\" .PP
.\" .B mts
.\" - Linux cluster scale-out multi-target support
.\" 
.\" Value: [ true | false ]
.\" 
.\" The multi-target support attribute identifies whether the Linux cluster supports
.\" HANA scale-out multi-target system replication. This needs consistently updated
.\" RA and srHook to be active on all Linux cluster nodes, including the majority
.\" maker.
.\" See also gra, gsh and SAPHanaSR-manageAttr(8).
.\" .PP
.\" .B upd
.\" - Linux cluster update status
.\" 
.\" Value: [ ok | nok ]
.\" 
.\" The update status attribute identifies whether the whole cluster has successfully
.\" passed an update procedure.
.\" See also mts above and SAPHanaSR-manageAttr(8).
.\" .PP
.B maintenance
- maintenance status of Linux cluster or cluster resource

Value: [ true | false ]

This is a Linux cluster node attribute. It is set by an admin.
The attribute is shown after it has been changed from the default.
The field might appear or disappear, depending on cluster maintenance tasks.
See also the standby attribute below.
.PP
.B promotable
- promotability of Linux cluster clone resource

Value: [ true ]

This is a Linux cluster clone resource attribute. It is set as resource configuration
meta attribute. The attribute is shown after it has been changed from the default.
For the SAPHanaController multi-state clone resource this has to be "true". See
also ocf_suse_SAPHanaController(7).
.PP
.B target-role
- target role of the Linux cluster promotable clone resources

Value: [ started | disabled ]

Should the resource be started or stopped (disabled) by the Linux cluster.
The attribute is shown after it has been changed from the default.
The field might appear or disappear, depending on cluster maintenance tasks.
.PP
.B filter
- SAPHanaController filter for logging

Value: [ \fIfilter\fR ]

The filter is defined by hana_<sid>_glob_filter .
See ocf_suse_SAPHanaController(7) for details.
.PP
.B lpt
- last primary timestamp

Value: [ \fIUNIX_EPOCH\fR | 30 | 20 | 10 | 0 ]

The node attribute lpa_<sid>_lpt or cluster attribute hana_<sid>_site_lpt_<site>
is set by the SAPHanaController resource agent.
When the RA detects a running HANA SR primary on the node, it records the Unix Epoch time.
See section DUPLICATE_PRIMARY_TIMEOUT ocf_suse_SAPHanaController(7).
.br
Auxiliary values are set for an HANA SR secondary. 30 means the instance is
evictable for primary. 10 means: not yet ready.
.PP
.B lss
- landscape status

Value: [ 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0 ]

The site attribute lss shows the return code of HANA's landscapeHostConfiguration.py.
.br
Value: [ 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0 ]
.br
This field contains the return code of landscapHostConfiguration.py. The
parameter does not tell you if the secondary system is ready for a takeover.
The meaning is different from common Linux return codes.
The SAPHanaController and SAPHanaTopology RAs will interpret return code 0 as
FATAL, 1 as NOT-RUNNING (or ERROR) and return codes 2+3+4 as RUNNING.
.br
4 = OK - Everything looks perfect on the HANA primary.
.br
3 = WARNING - An internal HANA action is ongoing, e.g. host auto-failover.
.br
2 = INFO - The landscape is completely functional, but the actual host role differs from the configured role.
.br
1 = DOWN - There are not enough active hosts.
.br
0 = FATAL - Internal script error, the state could not be determined.
.br
See landscapeHostConfiguration.py an ocf_suse_SAPHanaController(7).
.PP
.B mns
- master nameserver

Value: [ \fIHANA_MASTERNAMESERVER\fR ]

The cluster attribute hana_<sid>_site_mns_<site> shows the current HANA master
nameserver for the given site.
.\" The attribute is set by the SAPHanaTopology resource agent.
It is empty for sites outside the Linux cluster.
.PP
.B srr
- system replication role

Value: [ "P"rimary | "S"econdary | "N"one ]

The site attribute srr shows the current HANA system replication role for the
given scale-out site.
.\" The attribute is set by the SAPHanaTopology resource agent.
It is empty for sites outside the Linux cluster.
For scale-up see roles sub-field B of the Hosts section.
.PP

Value: [ online | offline ]
.\" TODO UNCLEAN | pending ?
.PP
.B opMode
- HANA SR operations mode

Value: [ logreplay | delta_datashipping | logreplay_readaccess ]

The node attribute hana_<sid>_op_mode is set by SAPHanaTopology, according to the running HANA. The attribute is used by the SAPHanaController resource agent for setting up system replication. delta_datashipping is not recommended in the context of Linux clusters.
.PP
.B remoteHost
- HANA SR remote host

Value: [ \fIHOSTNAME\fR ]
.\" TODO [ \fIHOSTNAME\fR | \fIHANA_VIRT_HOSTNAME\fR ] ?

The node attribute hana_<sid>_remoteHost is set by SAPHanaTopology, according
to the running HANA.
The attribute is used by the SAPHanaController resource agent for
setting up system replication.
See also the fields Hosts and vhost.
.PP
.B roles
- actual and configured roles for HANA on that node

The roles field in the Hosts section has four sub-fields (A:B:C:D).
For scale-up that four fields should be master1:master:worker:master.
.\" TODO or ":shtdown:shtdown:shtdown"
.\" TODO scale-out ERP and scale-out ERP
.br

Field A: NameServer Config Role
.br
Value: [ master1 | master2 | master3 | worker | slave | standby | shtdown ]
.br

Field B: NameServer Actual Role
.br
Value: [ master | slave | standby | shtdown ]
.br

Field C: IndexServer Config Role
.br
Value: [ master1 | master2 | master3 | worker | slave | standby | shtdown ]
.br

Field D: IndexServer Actual Role
.br
Value: [ master | worker | slave | standby | shtdown ]
.br
.\" TODO details for scale-up
.\" scale-out: master1:master:worker:master | master1:slave:standby:standby | :shtdown:shtdown:shtdown | ... [ master1 | master2 | master3 | worker | slave | shtdown ]
.PP
.B score
- actual master score on that node

.\"scale-up:
.\"Value: [ 150 | 140 | 100 | 90 | 80 | 60 | 10 | 0 | -1 | -INFINITY ]
Value: [ 150 | 145 | 140 | 115 | 110 | 100 | 90 | 80 | 70 | 60 | 10 | 5 | 0 | -1 | -9000 | -10000 | -12200 | -22100 | -22200 | -32300 | -33333 | -INFINITY ]

This is a variable of the SAPHanaController resource agent. It is calculated
based on an internal scoring table. A value of 150 should cause the Linux cluster promoting
the local resource instance to HANA SR primary master nameserver.
140 indicates a HANA primary master nameserver candidate. 
100 indicates the HANA secondary master nameserver. This field should not be empty.

Note: The effective resource scoring used by the Linux cluster differs from the above
values because the cluster engine takes into account other factors as well.  
.PP
.B sid
- HANA system indentifier

Value: [ \fISID\fR ]

The SID is the same for the pair of HANA system replication databases in the Linux cluster.
Also an HANA database connected thru mulit-target replication outside the cluster has this SID.
.PP
.B site
- HANA site where the host sits

Value: [ \fIHANA_SITE\fR ]

The node attribute hana_<sid>_site is set by SAPHanaTopology, according to the running HANA.
The attribute is used by the SAPHanaController resource agent for setting up
system replication.
A dash (-) indicates the RA did not run or did not recognize the site.
.PP
.B srMode
- HANA SR mode

Value: [ sync | syncmem ]

The node attribute hana_<sid>_glob_srmode is set by SAPHanaTopology, according to the running HANA.
The attribute is used by the SAPHanaController resource agent for setting up system
replication. SAP HANA knows also async and fullsync (see URLs below).
Those do not make sense for automating HANA system replication by an Linux cluster.
.PP
.B standby
- maintenance state of Linux cluster node

Value: [ on | off ]

This is a Linux cluster node attribute. It is set by an admin.
The attribute is shown after it has been changed from the default.
The field might appear or disappear, depending on cluster maintenance tasks.
See also the maintenance attribute above.
.PP
.B srPoll
- HANA SR status

Value: [ SOK | SFAIL | SWAIT | SREG | PRIM ]

The cluster property hana_<sid>_glob_sync_state is set by the SAPHanaController resource agent.
The first three values are representing an HANA system replication status,
recognized at latest RA run, see ocf_suse_SAPHanaController(7) and systemReplicationStatus.py .
.br
The 4th value (PRIM) just indicates an HANA SR primary.
.PP
.B sra
- HANA system replication action

Value: [ T | R | F | - ]

The node attribute system replication action is checked by the HA/DR provider susTkOver.py using the API
method preTakeover(). It is set by the SAPHanaController resource agent. 
It indicates whether a takeover or registration is ongoing. This attribute may 
not be persisted in pengine files.
.br
T = Takeover on new primary (sr_takeover) ongoing.
.br
R = Registration on new secondary (sr_register) ongoing.
.br
F = Takeover failed.
.br
- = No action pending.
.PP
.B srah
- HANA system replication action history

Value: [ T | R | F | - ]

The node attribute system replication action history stores actions in CIB
attributes for later use, for root cause analysis.
.PP
.\" TODO check srHook
.B srHook
- HANA replication channel state, indicated by srConnectionChanged

Value: [ SOK | SFAIL | SWAIT | SREG | PRIM ]

The cluster attributes related to srHook is hana_<sid>_site_srHook_<site>.
It represents the HANA SR status from HA/DR provider API method srConnectionChanged().
See SAPHanaSR(7) and SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut(7) for supported API versions and scenarios.
The attribute is not updated if the cluster is not running. Thus if the cluster is
shut down while HANA remains running, the content of srHook might be outdated on
cluster start until the next srConnectionChanged() event.
See susHanaSR.py(7) and susHanaSrMultiTarget.py(7) for details. 
.PP
.B terminate
- Linux cluster node fence status

Value: [ true ]

Indicates whether that node is requested for being fenced from outside the
Linux cluster. The attribute is removed as soon as the node has been successfully
fenced.
.PP
.B version
- HANA version

Value: [ \fIHANA_VERSION\fR ]

.\"TODO set by ...
Version of the HANA instance on that node. Of course, should be supported for
the given Linux version.
Should be same on all nodes, except during specific HANA upgrade procedure.
.PP
.B vhost
- HANA virtual hostname

Value: [ \fIHANA_VIRT_HOSTNAME\fR ]

The virtual hostname is used by the HANA instance instead of Linux hostname.
The node attribute hana_<sid>_vhost is set by SAPHanaTopology, according to
the running HANA. The attribute is used by the SAPHanaController resource agent
for setting up system replication.
See also the fields Hosts and remoteHost. SAPHanaTopology needs the SAPHOSTAGENT
to map from the local hostname to the HANA virtual hostname.
.\" TODO details, see HANA global.ini
.PP
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
\fB--help\fR
show help.
.TP 4
\fB--version\fR
show version.
.TP 4
\fB--cib\fR \fIOFFLINE_CIB_FILE\fR
read data from given offline CIB file(s).
.TP 4
\fB--format\fR \fIFORMAT\fR
output format. Allowed values: [ script | tables | json | tester | csv | cache ]. Default is tables.
.TP 4
\fB--from\fR \fIFROM_DATE\fR
point in time to show data from. Format: "YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS".
.TP 4
\fB--properties\fR \fIPROPERTIES_FILE\fR
specify a properties file, see also SAPHanaSR-showAttr_properties(5).
.TP 4
\fB--select\fR \fISELECT\fR
.\" TODO explain meaning of values
show selected information only. Allowed values: [ all | default | minimal | sr | cluster | cluster2 | cluster3 | sitelist | tester ]. Default is default.
.TP 4
\fB--sid\fR \fISID\fR
use SAP system ID \fISID\fR. Should be autodetected, if there is only one SAP HANA instance installed on the local cluster node. The SAP system ID is a 3 alphanum string with a valid SAP system name like SLE, HAE, FH1, C11, or P42.
\." Optional: Use SAP instance number \fIINO\fR. Should be autodetected, if there is only one SAP HANA instance installed on the local cluster node. The SAP instance number must be represented by a two digit numer like 00, 05 or 42. Some numbers ares not allowed, e.g. 98.
.TP 4
\fB--sort\fR \fIFIELD\fR
sort Hosts section table by field. Allowed values: [ roles | site ]. Default is sort by hostnames.
.TP 4
\fB--to\fR \fITO_DATE\fR
point in time to show data up to. Format: "YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS".
.PP
.\"
.SH RETURN CODES
.B 0
Successful program execution.
.br
.B >0
Usage, syntax or execution errors.
.PP
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 4
# SAPHanaSR-showAttr
show all SAPHanaSR attributes and relevant cluster maintenance states.
.br
If the roles sub-fields are :::: landscapeHostConfiguration.py has not been able to detect the HANA roles during last recent RA monitor operation. Likely HANA was down or sudo <sid>adm failed.
.TP 4
# SAPHanaSR-showAttr --sort roles
show all SAPHanaSR attributes in the cluster and sort host table output by roles.
.TP 4
# SAPHanaSR-showAttr --sid HA1 --cib ./hb_report-17-07-2019/grauenstein01/cib.xml
show all SAPHanaSR attributes for SAP System ID HA1 and instance number 10 from given CIB file.
.TP 4
# SAPHanaSR-showAttr | grep -e master: -e worker: -e slave:
show SAPHanaSR promotion scores on running nodes.
.TP 4 
# SAPHanaSR-showAttr --format script | egrep -v '/(version|op_mode|vhost|remoteHost|site)=' | SAPHanaSR-showAttr --path2table
reduce output to selected fields.
.TP 4
# watch -n9 "crm_mon -1r --include=none,nodes,resources,failures;echo; \\
.br
SAPHanaSR-showAttr;cs_clusterstate -i|grep -v '#'"
.br
display comprehensive overview on Linux cluster and HANA resources, update every nine seconds.
.PP
.\"
.SH FILES
.TP
/usr/bin/SAPHanaSR-showAttr
the program itself.
.TP
/usr/lib/SAPHanaSR-angi/
needed libraries.
.TP
/usr/sap/hostctrl/exe/saphostctrl
the SAP host control command.
.PP
.\"
.SH REQUIREMENTS
.PP
* Attribute names shall not contain the underscore "_", except attribute name "clone_state".
.PP
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
Formatting and content of this script's output will change, since this script
is under development.
.br
In case of any problem, please use your favourite SAP support process to open
a request for the component BC-OP-LNX-SUSE.
Please report any other feedback and suggestions to feedback@suse.com.
.PP
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBSAPHanaSR-showAttr_properties\fP(5), 
\fBocf_suse_SAPHanaController\fP(7) , \fBocf_suse_SAPHanaTopology\fP(7) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR-ScaleOut\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR-angi\fP(7) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR-replay-archive\fP(8) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR_maintenance_examples\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR-manageAttr\fP(8) ,
\fBcrm_simulate\fP(8) , \fBcrm_report\fP(8) , \fBcibadmin\fP(8) , \fBcrm_mon\fP(8) , \fBcrm_attribute\fP(8) ,
\fBcs_convert_time\fP(8) , \fBcs_clusterstate\fP(8) , \fBcs_show_hana_info\fP(8) , \fBcs_show_scores\fP(8) ,
.br
https://documentation.suse.com/sbp/sap/ ,
.br
https://documentation.suse.com/sles-sap/ ,
.br
https://www.susecon.com/archive-2020.html
.PP
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
A.Briel, F.Herschel, L.Pinne.
.PP
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
(c) 2014 SUSE Linux Products GmbH, Germany.
.br
(c) 2015-2017 SUSE Linux GmbH, Germany.
.br
(c) 2018-2025 SUSE LLC
.br
SAPHanaSR-showAttr comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
.br
For details see the GNU General Public License at
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
