.\" Version: 1.2 
.\"
.TH susHanaSrMultiTarget.py 7 "10 Dec 2025" "" "SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut"
.\"
.SH NAME
susHanaSrMultiTarget.py \- Provider for multi-target aware SAP HANA srHook
method srConnectionChanged().
.PP
.\"
.\" .SH SYNOPSIS
.\" \fBSAPHanaSrMultiTarget.py\fP
.\" .PP
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
susHanaSrMultitarget.py can be used to provide a script for the SAP HANA srHook method srConnectionChanged().

The SAP HANA nameserver provides a Python-based API ("HA/DR providers"), which 
is called at important points of the host auto-failover and system replication 
takeover process. These so called hooks can be used for arbitrary operations
that need to be executed. The method srConnectionChanged() is called on the
master nameserver as soon as one of the replicating services loses or establishes the system replication connection. This method is called only once.

SAPHanaSR srHook script and resource agent need to use same cluster attributes.
Therefor beginning with package SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut version 0.180 a generation
attribute is used. 
.PP
.\"
.SH SUPPORTED PARAMETERS
\fB*\fP The "HA/DR providers" API accepts the following mandatory parameters
for the ha_dr_provider_saphanasrmultitarget section:
.TP
\fB[ha_dr_provider_sushanasrmultitarget]\fP
.TP
\fBprovider = susHanaSrMultiTarget\fP
.TP
\fBpath = /usr/share/SAPHanaSR-angi/\fP
.TP
\fBexecution_order = [ INTEGER ]\fP
.PP
Further one optional parameter can be used to control which attributes the
srHook script should access in the Linux cluster CIB. The following parameter
should be set only if requested by support engineers. The default is sufficient for normal operation.
.TP
.\" TODO check what finally is shipped
\fBcib_access = [ all-on | site-on ]\fP
.\"
.PP
The "HA/DR providers" API accepts the following optional parameter for the
system_replication section:
.TP
\fB[system_replication]\fP
.TP
\fBregister_secondaries_on_takeover = [ true | false ]\fP
.PP
The "HA/DR providers" API accepts the following mandatory parameter for the
trace section:
.TP
\fB[trace]\fP
.TP
\fBha_dr_saphanasrmultitarget = [ info | debug ]\fP
.PP
\fB*\fP The SAPHanaController RA recognizes the effecting system
replication status via attributes in the CIB properties section. The SAP System
Indentifier (sid) is given in lower case. See REQUIREMENTS section below for
supported API versions and scenarios. For SAPHanaSR-angi the
susHanaSrMultiTarget.py provides site-specific attributes among the SAPHanaSR
properties:
.TP
\fBhana_<sid>_site_srHook_<site> = [ SOK | SFAIL | SWAIT | SREG | SCOPY | PRIM ]\fP
.PP
Note: See SAPHanaSR.py(7) for old-style SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut with one global
attribute instead of site-specific attributes.
.\" TODO hana_<sid>_glob_srHook during migration process?
.PP
\fB*\fP The SAPHanaSR-manageAttr tool recognises scale-out multi-target capability via host attribute. The SAP System Indentifier (sid) is given in lower case. See REQUIREMENTS section below for supported API versions and scenarios. For new
SAPHanaSR-angi the susHanaSrMultiTarget.py reports its generation:
.TP
\fBhana_<sid>_gsh = [ \fIgeneration\fR \fB]\fP
.PP
.\"
.SH RETURN CODES
.B 0
Successful program execution.
.br
.B >0
Usage, syntax or execution errors.
.PP
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
* Example for generic permission in /etc/sudoers.d/SAPHanaSR .
.br
HANA 2.0 Scale-Out, SID is SLE. The attribute contains the lowercase-SID.
The main srHook attribute and all auxiliary host- and site-attributes are covered (..._gsh, ..._mts). Access should be always limited to the specific SID.
.PP
.RS 2
# Comments need a blank after the hash.
.br
# SAPHanaSR needs for srHook:
.br
sleadm ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: /usr/sbin/crm_attribute -n hana_sle_*
.RE
.PP
.\" TODO define what attributes are needed: _srHook _gsh _mts?
.\"* More restricted example for sudo permission, e.g. /etc/sudoers.d/SAPHanaSR. HANA 2.0 Scale-Up and Scale-Out multi-target aware, SID is SLE.
.\".PP
.\".RS 2
.\"# SAPHanaSR needs for srHook
.\".br
.\"Cmnd_Alias SOK = /usr/sbin/crm_attribute -n hana_sle_site_srHook_* -v SOK -t crm_config -s SAPHanaSR
.\".br
.\"Cmnd_Alias SFAIL = /usr/sbin/crm_attribute -n hana_sle_site_srHook_* -v SFAIL -t crm_config -s SAPHanaSR
.\".br
.\"sleadm ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: SOK, SFAIL
.\".RE
.\".PP
* Example for looking up the sudo permission for the srHook script.
.br
All related files (/etc/sudoers and /etc/sudoers.d/*) are scanned.
Example SID is HA1.
.PP
.RS 2
# sudo -U ha1adm -l | grep "NOPASSWD.*crm_attribute.*hana_ha1" 
.RE
.PP
* Example for entry in SAP HANA 2.0 global configuration
/hana/shared/$SID/global/hdb/custom/config/global.ini with multi-target aware,
site-specific attributes.
.br
This entry is needed at both sites that are managed by the Linux cluster.
The HANA has to be stopped before the files can be edited.
Do not copy the file between nodes. Please check SAP HANA documentation for details.
Do not forget to adapt the sudo permission, see examples above.
.PP
.RS 2
[ha_dr_provider_sushanasrmultitarget]
.br
provider = susHanaSrMultiTarget
.br
path = /usr/share/SAPHanaSR-angi/
.br
execution_order = 1
.br
[trace]
.br
ha_dr_saphanasrmultitarget = info
.RE
.PP
* Example for entry in SAP HANA 2.0 global configuration
/hana/shared/$SID/global/hdb/custom/config/global.ini to enable multi-target aware third site.
.br
This entry is needed to allow ocf_suse_SAPHanaController(7) parameter AUTOMATED_REGISTER=true in multi-target environments.
The HANA has to be stopped before the files can be edited.
Do not copy the file between nodes. Please check SAP HANA documentation for details.
.PP
.RS 2
[system_replication]
.br
 ...
.br
register_secondaries_on_takeover = true
.br
 ...
.RE
.PP
* Example for entry in SAP HANA 2.0 nameserver configuration
/hana/shared/$SID/global/hdb/custom/config/nameserver.ini for two-node scale-out HANA without standby nodes.
.br
This entry is needed at both sites that are managed by the Linux cluster.
The HANA has to be stopped before the files can be edited. Do not copy the file
between nodes. It might be necessary to un-register and re-register the secondary
to make the change effective on the secondary site. 
Please check SAP HANA documentation for details. In this example the master node
is suse11, the worker is suse12.
.PP
.RS 2
[landscape]
 ...
.br
master = suse11:31001
.br
worker = suse11 suse12
.br
active_master = suse11:31001
.br
roles_suse11 = worker
.br
roles_suse12 = worker
 ...
.RE
.PP
* Example for checking the system log for srHook setting HANA system replication status in the CIB properties section. To be executed on respective HANA primary site's master nameserver.
.PP
.RS 2
# grep "sudo.*crm_attribute.*srHook" /var/log/messages
.RE
.PP
* Example for checking the HANA tracefiles for srConnectionChanged() events. To be executed on respective HANA primary site's master nameserver.
.PP
.RS 2
# su - sleadm
.br
~> cdtrace
.br
~> grep susHanaS.*srConnectionChanged.*called nameserver_*.trc
.br
~> grep crm_attribute.*susHanaS nameserver_*.trc
.br
# exit
.RE
.PP
* Example for checking the HANA tracefiles for when the hook script has been loaded. To be executed on both site's master nameservers.
.PP
.RS 2
# su - sleadm
.br
~> cdtrace
.br
~> grep HADR.*load.*susHanaS nameserver_*.trc
.RE
.PP
* Example for comparing Linux cluster srHook attribute with current HANA SR state. SID is HA1. To be executed on current HANA primary site.
.PP
.RS 2
# SAPHanaSR-showAttr | grep -A4 srHook
.br
# su - ha1adm -c "HDBSettings.sh systemReplicationStatus.py"
.RE
.PP
* Potentially dangerous example for manually changing Linux cluster srHook
attribute according to current HANA SR state. This might be desired if the
HANA SR state has changed while the Linux cluster was completely down.
SID is ICE, site is BERG, current HANA SR state is SFAIL.
.br
Note: Understand the impact before trying.
.PP
.RS 2
# su - iceadm -c "HDBSettings.sh systemReplicationStatus.py"
.br
# cs_clusterstate -i
.br
# crm_attribute -n hana_ice_site_srHook_BERG -v SFAIL -t crm_config -s SAPHanaSR
.br
# SAPHanaSR-showAttr
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fR Example for removing orphaned global srHook attribute.
This might be done after upgrading from old-style srHook, to avoid confusion
caused by different HANA HADR provider API versions.
See also SAPHanaSR.py(7) and SAPHanaSR-manageAttr(8).
SID is HA1.
.\" TODO scale-up: SID is HA1, node is node1. All nodes need to be cleaned.
.\" TODO scale-up: # crm_attribute --delete -t nodes --node node1 --name hana_ha1_glob_srHook
.\" TODO double check orphaned attributes to be removed
.PP
.RS 2
# SAPHanaSR-showAttr
.br
# cs_clusterstate -i
.br
crm configure show SAPHanaSR
.br
# crm_attribute --delete -t crm_config --name hana_ha1_glob_srHook
.br
crm configure show SAPHanaSR
.br
# SAPHanaSR-showAttr
.RE
.PP
.\"
.SH FILES
.TP
/usr/share/SAPHanaSR-angi/susHanaSrMultiTarget.py
the scale-out multi-target aware hook provider, delivered with the RPM
.TP
/hana/shared/$SID/global/hdb/custom/config/global.ini
the on-disk representation of HANA global system configuration
.TP
/hana/shared/$SID/global/hdb/custom/config/nameserver.ini
the on-disk representation of HANA nameserver configuration
.TP
/etc/sudoers , /etc/sudoers.d/
the sudo permission configuration
.TP
/usr/sap/$SID/HDB$nr/$host/trace/
the directory with HANA trace files
.TP
/usr/sap/$SID/HDB$nr/.crm_attribute.$SITE
the internal cache for srHook status changes while Linux cluster is down, file is owned and read/write by ${sid}adm and must never be touched
.PP
.\"
.SH REQUIREMENTS 
1. SAP HANA starting with version 1.0 SPS11 patch level 112.02.
Older versions do not provide the srHook method srConnectionChanged().
With the mentioned HANA versions uni-directional chained system replication is
possible. With HANA 2.0 SPS04 and later multi-target system replication is
possible as well. See also SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut(7) for supported API versions and
scenarios.
.\" TODO check HANA 2.0 SPS
.PP
2. No other HADR provider hook script should be configured for the
srConnectionChanged() method. Hook scripts for other methods, provided in
SAPHanaSR-angi, can be used in parallel to susHanaSrMultiTarget.py, if
not documented contradictingly.
.PP
3. The user ${sid}adm needs execution permission as user root for the command crm_attribute.
.PP
4. The hook provider needs to be added to the HANA global configuration,
in memory and on disk (in persistence).
.PP
5. The Linux cluster needs to be up and running to allow HA/DR provider events being written into CIB attributes. The current HANA SR status might differ from CIB srHook attribute after Linux cluster maintenance.
.PP
6. The srHook script runtime almost completely depends on call-outs to OS and
Linux cluster.
.PP
7. Running srHook script and RA need to be of same or compatible generation. This is indicated by node attributes.
.PP
.\"
.SH BUGS
Old SAPHanaSR/SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut and new SAPHanaSR-angi properties for HANA SR status can not be used at same
time.
.br
In case of any problem, please use your favourite SAP support process to open
a request for the component BC-OP-LNX-SUSE.
Please report any other feedback and suggestions to feedback@suse.com.
.PP
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBSAPHanaSR-ScaleOut\fP(7) , \fBsusHanaSR.py\fP(7) ,
\fBocf_suse_SAPHanaTopology\fP(7) , \fBocf_suse_SAPHanaController\fP(7) , 
\fBSAPHanaSR-showAttr\fP(8) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR-manageAttr\fP(8) , \fBSAPHanaSR-manageProvider\fP(8) ,
\fBcrm_attribute\fP(8) , \fBsudo\fP(8) , \fBsudoers\fP(5) , \fBpython\fP(8) ,
.br
https://documentation.suse.com/sbp/sap/ ,
.br
https://documentation.suse.com/sles-sap/ ,
.br
https://www.susecon.com/archive-2019.html ,
.br
https://www.susecon.com/archive-2020.html ,
.br
https://www.suse.com/support/kb/doc/?id=000020835
.br
http://help.sap.com/saphelp_hanaplatform/helpdata/en/13/67c8fdefaa4808a7485b09815ae0f3/content.htm ,
.br
http://help.sap.com/saphelp_hanaplatform/helpdata/en/5d/f2e766549a405e95de4c5d7f2efc2d/content.htm ,
.br
http://help.sap.com/saphelp_hanaplatform/helpdata/en/12/00ab8ef0c54c54be2d0e7f5327f7ed/content.htm?frameset=/en/13/67c8fdefaa4808a7485b09815ae0f3/frameset.htm&current_toc=/en/00/0ca1e3486640ef8b884cdf1a050fbb/plain.htm&node_id=413 ,
.br
https://help.sap.com/saphelp_hanaplatform/helpdata/en/3f/1a6a7dc31049409e1a9f9108d73d51/content.htm
.PP
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
A.Briel, F.Herschel, L.Pinne.
.PP
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
(c) 2020-2025 SUSE LLC
.br
susHanaSrMultiTarget.py comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
.br
For details see the GNU General Public License at
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
