.\" Version: 1.2
.\"
.TH susTkOver.py 7 "10 Feb 2025" "" "SAPHanaSR"
.\"
.SH NAME
susTkOver.py \- Provider for SAP HANA srHook method preTakeover().
.PP
.\"
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
susTkOver.py can be used to provide a script for the SAP HANA srHook method preTakeover().

The SAP HANA nameserver provides a Python-based API ("HA/DR providers"), which 
is called at important points of the host auto-failover and system replication 
takeover process. These so called hooks can be used for arbitrary operations
that need to be executed. The method preTakeover() is called before the
sr_takeover action.

susTkOver.py allows manual takeover of the HANA primary if the SAP HANA
multi-state resource (managed by SAPHanaController) is set into
maintenance or the Linux cluster is stopped.
Otherwise the manual takeover is blocked. See also manual page
SAPHanaSR_maintenance_examples(7).

This hook script needs to be configured and activated on all HANA nodes.

.PP
.\"
.SH SUPPORTED PARAMETERS
* The "HA/DR providers" API accepts the following parameters for the 
ha_dr_provider_susTkOver section:
.TP
\fB[ha_dr_provider_susTkOver]\fP
.TP
\fBprovider = susTkOver\fP
Mandatory. Must not be changed.
.TP
\fBpath = /usr/share/SAPHanaSR-angi\fP
Mandatory. Delivered within RPM package. Please change only if requested.
.TP
\fBexecution_order = [ INTEGER ]\fP
Mandatory. Order might depend on other hook scripts.
.TP
\fBsustkover_timeout = [ INTEGER ]\fP
Optional. Default is 30 seconds.
.PP
* The "HA/DR providers" API accepts the following parameter for the trace section:
.TP
\fB[trace]\fP
.TP
\fBha_dr_sustkover = [ info | debug ]\fP
Optional. Default is info. Will be added automatically, if not set.
.PP
* The SAPHanaController RA is recognizing the pending takeover
request via the following cluster attributes:
.TP
\fBsra = [ T | R | F | - ]\fP
.PP
HANA system replication takeover action, indicated by preTakeover().
.PP
The node attribute system replication action is checked by the HA/DR provider API
method preTakeover(). It is set by the resource agent SAPHanaController. 
It indicates whether a takeover or registration is ongoing.
.br
T = Takeover on new primary (sr_takeover) ongoing.
.br
R = Registration on new secondary (sr_register) ongoing.
.br
F = Takeover failed.
.br
- = No action pending.
.TP
\fBsrah = [ T | R | F | - ]\fP
.PP
HANA system replication action history

The node attribute system replication action history stores actions in CIB
attributes for later use, for root cause analysis.
.PP
.\"
.SH RETURN CODES
.B 0
Successful program execution.
.br
.B >0
Usage, syntax or execution errors.
.PP
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
* Simple example for sudo permissions in /etc/sudoers.d/SAPHanaSR .
.br
SID is HA1. See also manual page SAPHanaSR-hookHelper(8).
.PP
.RS 2
# SAPHanaSR needs for susTkOver
.br
ha1adm ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/SAPHanaSR-hookHelper *
.RE
.PP
* Example for looking up the sudo permission for the hook script.
.br
All related files (/etc/sudoers and /etc/sudoers.d/*) are scanned.
Example SID is HA1.
.PP
.RS 2
# sudo -U ha1adm -l | grep "NOPASSWD.*/usr/bin/SAPHanaSR-hookHelper" 
.RE
.PP
* Example for entry in SAP HANA scale-up global configuration
/hana/shared/$SID/global/hdb/custom/config/global.ini
.br
This file is needed at both sites. The HANA has to be stopped before the files
can be changed.
.PP
.RS 2
[ha_dr_provider_sustkover]
.br
provider = susTkOver
.br
path = /usr/share/SAPHanaSR-angi
.br
sustkover_timeout = 30
.br
execution_order = 1
.br
[trace]
.br
ha_dr_sustkover = info
.RE
.PP
* Example for entry in SAP HANA scale-out global configuration
/hana/shared/$SID/global/hdb/custom/config/global.ini
.br
This file is needed at both sites. The HANA has to be stopped before the files
can be edited.
.PP
.RS 2
[ha_dr_provider_sustkover]
.br
provider = susTkOver
.br
path = /usr/share/SAPHanaSR-angi
.br
sustkover_timeout = 30
.br
execution_order = 1
.br
[trace]
.br
ha_dr_sustkover = info
.RE
.PP
* Example for checking the system log for susTkOver setting HANA system replication status in the CIB properties section. To be executed on respective HANA primary site's master nameserver.
.PP
.RS 2
# grep "sudo.*SAPHanaSR-hookHelper" /var/log/messages
.RE
.PP
* Example for checking the HANA tracefiles for preTakeover() events. To be executed on respective HANA secondary site's master nameserver.
.PP
.RS 2
# su - sleadm
.br
~> cdtrace
.br
~> grep susTk.*preTakeover.*called nameserver_*.trc
.RE
.PP
* Example for showing intentionally blocked manual takeover attempts. To be executed on respective HANA secondary site's master nameserver.
.PP
.RS 2
# su - sleadm
.br
~> cdtrace
.br
~> grep susTkOver.preTakeover.*failed.*50277 nameserver_*.trc
.RE
.PP
Note: If you see such messages, you may want to read SAPHanaSR_maintenance_examples(7).
.PP
* Example for checking the HANA tracefiles for when the hook script has been loaded. To be executed on both sites' master nameservers.
.PP
.RS 2
# su - sleadm
.br
~> cdtrace
.br
~> grep HADR.*load.*susTkOver nameserver_*.trc
.br
~> grep susTkOver.init nameserver_*.trc
.RE
.PP
.\"
.SH FILES
.TP
/usr/share/SAPHanaSR-angi/susTkOver.py
the hook provider, delivered with the RPM
.TP
/usr/bin/SAPHanaSR-hookHelper
the external script to check and update the CIB attribute
.TP
/hana/shared/$SID/global/hdb/custom/config/global.ini
the on-disk representation of HANA global system configuration
.TP
/etc/sudoers , /etc/sudoers.d/*
the sudo permissions configuration
.TP
/usr/sap/$sid/HDB$nr/$HOST/trace/nameserver_$vhost.3????.???.trc
the HANA master nameserver tracefile
.PP
.\"
.SH REQUIREMENTS 
1. SAP HANA 2.0 SPS06 or later provides the HA/DR provider hook method
preTakeover() with multi-target aware parameters and separate return code
for Linux HA clusters.
.\" TODO does SPS05 rev.59 work?
.PP
2. No other HADR provider hook script should be configured for the
preTakeover() method. Hook scripts for other methods, provided in
SAPHanaSR and SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut, can be used in parallel to susTkOver.py, if
not documented contradictingly.
.PP
3. The user ${sid}adm needs execution permission as user root for the command 
SAPHanaSR-hookHelper
.PP
4. The hook provider needs to be added to the HANA global configuration,
in memory and on disk (in persistence).
.PP
5. If the hook provider should be pre-compiled, the particular Python version
that comes with SAP HANA has to be used.
.\"
.SH BUGS
In case of any problem, please use your favourite SAP support process to open
a request for the component BC-OP-LNX-SUSE.
Please report any other feedback and suggestions to feedback@suse.com.
.PP
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBSAPHanaSR\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR-ScaleOut\fP(7) ,
\fBsusHanaSR.py\fP(7) , \fBsusHanaSrMultiTarget.py\fP(7) ,
\fBocf_suse_SAPHanaTopology\fP(7) , \fBocf_suse_SAPHanaController\fP(7) , 
\fBSAPHanaSR-showAttr\fP(8) , \fBSAPHanaSR-hookHelper\fP(8) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR_maintenance_examples\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR-manageProvider\fP(8) ,
\fBcrm_attribute\fP(8) , \fBsudo\fP(8) , \fBsudoers\fP(5), \fBpython3\fP(8) ,
.br
https://help.sap.com/docs/SAP_HANA_PLATFORM?locale=en-US
.br
https://help.sap.com/docs/SAP_HANA_PLATFORM/6b94445c94ae495c83a19646e7c3fd56/5df2e766549a405e95de4c5d7f2efc2d.html?locale=en-US
.PP
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
A.Briel, F.Herschel, L.Pinne.
.PP
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
(c) 2022-2025 SUSE LLC
.br
susTkOver.py comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
.br
For details see the GNU General Public License at
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
