.\" Version: 0.148.1
.\"
.TH ocf_suse_SAPHanaTopology 7 "04 Jun 2014" "" "OCF resource agents"
.\"
.SH NAME
SAPHanaTopology \- Helps to manage two single SAP HANA databases with system replication.
.\"
.SH SYNOPSYS
.br
\fBSAPHanaTopology\fP [start | stop | status | monitor | meta\-data | validate\-all | methods | usage ]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.br
\fBSAPHanaTopology\fP is a resource agent (RA) that analyzes the SAP HANA topology
and "sends" all findings via the node status attributes to all nodes in the cluster.
These attributes are taken by the SAPHana RA to control the SAP Hana Databases.
In addition it starts and monitors the local saphostagent.

1. Interface to monitor a HANA system: landscapeHostConfiguration.py 
   landscapeHostConfiguration.py has some detailed output about HANA system status
   and node roles. For our monitor the overall status is relevant. This overall 
   status is reported by the returncode of the script:
   0: Internal Fatal 1: ERROR 2: WARNING 3: INFO (maybe a switch of the resource running) 4: OK
   The SAPHanaTopology resource agent will interpret returncodes 1 as NOT-RUNNING
   (or 1 failure) and returncodes 2+3+4 as RUNNING.
   SAPHanaTopology scans the output table of landscapeHostConfiguration.py to identify
   the roles of the cluster node. Roles means configured and current role of the
   nameserver as well as the indexserver.

2. Interface is hdbnsutil
   The interface hdbnsutil is used to check the "topology" of the system replication
   as well as the current configuration (primary/secondary) of a SAP HANA database
   instance. A second task of the interface is the posibility to run a system
   replication takeover (sr_takeover) or to register a former primary to a newer one
   (sr_register).

3. saphostctrl
   The interface saphostctrl uses the function ListInstances to figure out the
   virtual host name of the SAP HANA instance. This is the hostname used during
   the HANA installation.
.PP
Please see also the LIMITATIONS section below.
.PP
Please notice that the method to "send" the findings via the node status attributes might
change in a next version, so please do not think about those attributes as an "API". Also
do not adjust those automatical set node attributes manulally in normal operation. Names
and semantic of the attributes can change in next versions.
.\"
.SH SUPPORTED PARAMETERS
.br
This resource agent supports the following parameters:
.PP
\fBSID\fR
.RS 4
SAP System Identifier. Has to be same on both instances.
.RE
.PP
\fBInstanceNumber\fR
.RS 4
Number of the SAP HANA database.
For system replication also Instance Number+1 is blocked.
.RE
.PP
\fBSAPHanaFilter\fR
.RS 4
Define SAPHana resource agent messages to be printed.
This parameter should only be set of been requested by a support engineer.
The default is sufficient for normal operation.
.br
Optional.
.RE
.PP
.\"
.SH SUPPORTED ACTIONS
.br
This resource agent supports the following actions (operations):
.PP
\fBstart\fR
.RS 4
Sets the status of the clone to "started".
.RE
.PP
\fBstop\fR
.RS 4
Sets the status of the clone to "stoped".
.RE
.PP
\fBstatus\fR
.RS 4
Reports whether the HANA instance is running.
Suggested minimum timeout: 60\&.
.RE
.PP
\fBmonitor\fR
.RS 4
Analysises the nodes HANA roles and landscape status.
Suggested minimum timeout: 600\&.
Suggested interval: 10\&.
.RE
.PP
\fBvalidate\-all\fR
.RS 4
Reports whether the parameters are valid.
Suggested minimum timeout: 5\&.
.RE
.PP
\fBmeta\-data\fR
.RS 4
Retrieves resource agent metadata (internal use only).
Suggested minimum timeout: 5\&.
.RE
.PP
\fBmethods\fR
.RS 4
Suggested minimum timeout: 5\&.
.RE
.PP
.\"
.SH RETURN CODES
.br
The return codes are defined by the OCF cluster framework.
Please refer to the OCF definition on the website mentioned below.
.PP
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.br
* Below is an example configuration for a SAPHanaToplogy resource.
.RS 2 
In addition, a SAPHana resource is needed to make this work.
.RE
.PP
.RS 4
primitive rsc_SAPHanaTopology_SLE_HDB00 ocf:suse:SAPHanaTopology \\
.br
operations $id="rsc_sap2_SLE_HDB00-operations" \\
.br
op start interval="0" timeout="600" \\
.br
op stop interval="0" timeout="600" \\
.br
op monitor interval="10" timeout="600" \\
.br
params SID="SLE" InstanceNumber="00" 
.PP
clone cln_SAPHanaTopology_SLE_HDB00 rsc_SAPHanaTopology_SLE_HDB00 \\
.br
notify="true" clone-max="2" clone-node-max="1"
.RE
.\" TODO: example grep messages
.\" TODO: example cibadm host attributes
.\"
.SH LIMITATIONS
.br
For the current version of the SAPHanaTopology / SAPHana resource agent software
package the support is limited to the following scenarios and parameters:
.br
1. Two-node clusters with single-box to single-box system replication.
.br
2. Technical users and groups such as sidadm are defined locally in the Linux system.
.br
3. Time synchronization between the cluster nodes using NTP.
.br
4. There is no other SAP HANA system (like QA) on the replicating node which needs
to be stopped during takeover.
.br
5. Only one system replication for the SAP HANA database.
.br
6. Both SAP HANA instances have the same SAP Identifier (SID) and Instance Number.
.br
7. Beside SAP HANA you need SAP hostagent to be installed on your system.
.br
8. Automated start of SAP HANA instances during system boot must be switched of.
.br
9. The current resource agent supports SAP HANA in System replication beginning
with HANA version 1.0 SPS 7 patch level 70.
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.br
\fBocf_suse_SAPHana\fP(7) , \fBntp.conf\fP(5) ,
https://www.suse.com/products/sles-for-sap/resource-library/sap-best-practices.html ,
http://clusterlabs.org/doc/en-US/Pacemaker/1.1/html/Pacemaker_Explained/s-ocf-return-codes.html
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
.br
F.Herschel, L.Pinne.
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
(c) 2014 SUSE Linux Products GmbH, Germany.
.br
SAPHana comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
.br
For details see the GNU General Public License at
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
