.\" Version: 0.148.1
.\"
.TH ocf_suse_SAPHana 7 "04 Jun 2014" "" "OCF resource agents"
.\"
.SH NAME
SAPHana \- Manages two single SAP HANA databases with system replication.
.\"
.SH SYNOPSYS
.br
\fBSAPHana\fP [start | stop | status | monitor | promote | demote | notify | meta\-data | validate\-all | methods | usage ]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBSAPHana\fP is a resource agent for SAP HANA databases. It manages a SAP HANA database
with system replication in an OCF master/slave configuration.

System replication will help to replicate the database data from one computer
to another computer in order to compensate for database failures.
With this mode of operation, internal SAP HANA high-availability (HA) mechanisms
and the resource agent must work together.
The SAPHana resource agent (RA) performs the actual check of the SAP HANA
database instances and is configured as a master/slave resource.
Managing the two SAP HANA instances means that the resource agent controls
the start/stop of the instances. In addition the resource agent is able to monitor
the SAP HANA databases on landscape host configuration level.
For this monitoring the resource agent relies on interfaces provided by SAP.

A third task of the resource agent is to also check the synchronisation status
of the two SAP HANA databases. If the synchronisation is not "SOK", than the cluster
avoids to failover to the secondary side, if the primary fails. This is to improve
the data consistency.

The resource agent uses the following five interfaces provided by SAP:

1. sapcontrol/sapstartsrv
   The interface sapcontrol/sapstartsrv is used to start/stop a HANA database
   instance/system

2. landscapeHostConfiguration
   The interface is used to monitor a HANA system. The python script is named
   landscapeHostConfiguration.py.
   landscapeHostConfiguration.py has some detailed output about HANA system status
   and node roles. For our monitor the overall status is relevant. This overall 
   status is reported by the returncode of the script:
   0: Internal Fatal, 1: ERROR, 2: WARNING, 3: INFO, 4: OK
   The SAPHana resource agent will interpret returncodes 0 as FATAL, 1 as not-running
   (or ERROR) and and returncodes 2+3+4 as RUNNING.

3. hdbnsutil
   The interface hdbnsutil is used to check the "topology" of the system replication
   as well as the current configuration (primary/secondary) of a SAP HANA database
   instance. A second task of the interface is the posibility to run a system
   replication takeover (sr_takeover) or to register a former primary to a newer one
   (sr_register).

4. hdbsql / systemReplicationStatus
   Interface is SQL query into HANA (system replication table).  The hdbsql query will
   be replaced by a python script "systemReplicationStatus.py" in SAP HANA SPS8 or 9.
   As long as wee need to use hdbsql you need to setup secure store users for Linux
   user root to be able to access the SAP HANA database. You need to configure a secure
   store user key "SLEHALOC" which can connect the SAP HANA database. 

5. saphostctrl
   The interface saphostctrl uses the function ListInstances to figure out the virtual
   host name of the SAP HANA instance. This is the hostname used during the HANA
   installation.
.PP
To make configuring the cluster as simple as possible, the additional
SAPHanaTopology resource agent runs on all nodes of a SLE 11 HAE cluster and gathers
information about the statuses and configurations of SAP HANA system replications.
The SAPHanaTopology RA is designed as a normal (stateless) clone.
.br
Please see also the LIMITATIONS section below.
.\"
.SH SUPPORTED PARAMETERS
.br
This resource agent supports the following parameters:
.PP
\fBSID\fR
.RS 4
SAP System Identifier. Has to be same on both instances.
.RE
.PP
\fBInstanceNumber\fR
.RS 4
Number of the SAP HANA database.
For system replication also Instance Number+1 is blocked.
.RE
.PP
\fBDIR_EXECUTABLE\fR
.RS 4
The full qualified path where to find sapstartsrv and sapcontrol.
Specify this parameter, if you have changed the SAP kernel directory location
after the default SAP installation.
.br
Optional, well known directories will be searched by default.
.RE
.PP
\fBDIR_PROFILE\fR
.RS 4
The full qualified path where to find the SAP START profile.
Specify this parameter, if you have changed the SAP profile directory location
after the default SAP installation.
.br
Optional, well known directories will be searched by default.
.RE
.PP
\fBINSTANCE_PROFILE\fR
.RS 4
The name of the SAP HANA instance profile. Specify this parameter,
if you have changed the name of the SAP HANA instance profile
after the default SAP installation.
Normally you do not need to set this parameter.
.br
Optional, well known directories will be searched by default.
.RE 
.PP
\fBPREFER_SITE_TAKEOVER\fR
.RS 4
Defines whether RA should prefer to switchover to slave instance instead of restarting master locally.
.br
Optional. Default value: true\&.
.RE
.PP
\fBDUPLICATE_PRIMARY_TIMEOUT\fR
.RS 4
Time difference needed between two primary time stamps, if a dual-primary situation occurs.
If the time difference is less than the time gap, than the cluster hold one or both instances
in a "WAITING" status. This is to give a admin a chance to react on a failover.
A failed former primary will be registered after the time difference is passed.
After this registration to the new primary all data will be overwritten by the system
replication.
.br
Optional. Default value: 7200\&.
.RE
.PP
\fBAUTOMATED_REGISTER\fR
.RS 4
Defines, whether a former primary instance should be registered automatically
by the resource agent during cluster/resource start, if the DUPLICATE_PRIMARY_TIMEOUT
is expired.
.br
Default value: false\&.
.RE
.PP
\fBSAPHanaFilter\fR
.RS 4
Define SAPHana resource agent messages to be printed.
This parameter should only be set of been requested by support engineers.
The default is sufficient for normal operation.
.br
Optional.
.RE
.PP
.\"
.SH SUPPORTED ACTIONS
.br
This resource agent supports the following actions (operations):
.PP
\fBstart\fR
.RS 4
Starts the HANA instance or bring the "clone instance" to a WAITING status.
Suggested minimum timeout: 3600\&.
.RE
.PP
\fBstop\fR
.RS 4
Stops the HANA instance. 
Suggested minimum timeout: 3600\&.
.RE
.PP
\fBpromote\fR
.RS 4
Either runs a takeover for a secondary or a just-nothing for a primary.
Suggested minimum timeout: 320\&.
.RE
.PP
\fBdemote\fR
.RS 4
Nearly does nothing and just mark the instance as demoted.
Suggested minimum timeout: 320\&.
.RE
.PP
\fBnotify\fR
.RS 4
Always returns SUCCESS.
Suggested minimum timeout: 10\&.
.RE
.PP
\fBstatus\fR
.RS 4
Reports whether the HANA instance is running.
Suggested minimum timeout: 60\&.
.RE
.PP
\fBmonitor (Master role)\fR
.RS 4
Reports whether the HANA instance seems to be working in master/slave it
also needs to check the system replication status.
Suggested minimum timeout: 700\&.
Suggested interval: 60\&.
.RE
.PP
\fBmonitor (Slave role)\fR
.RS 4
Reports whether the HANA instance seems to be working in master/slave it
also needs to check the system replication status.
Suggested minimum timeout: 700\&.
Suggested interval: 61\&.
.RE
.PP
\fBvalidate\-all\fR
.RS 4
Reports whether the parameters are valid.
Suggested minimum timeout: 5\&.
.RE
.PP
\fBmeta\-data\fR
.RS 4
Retrieves resource agent metadata (internal use only).
Suggested minimum timeout: 5\&.
.RE
.PP
\fBmethods\fR
.RS 4
Suggested minimum timeout: 5\&.
.RE
.PP
.\"
.SH RETURN CODES
.br
The return codes are defined by the OCF cluster framework.
Please refer to the OCF definition on the website mentioned below. 

In addition, log entries are written, which can be scanned by using a pattern
like "SAPHana.*RA.*rc=[1-7,9]".
.PP
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
* Below is an example configuration for a SAPHana resource.
.RS 2 
In addition, a SAPHanaTopology resource is needed to make this work.
.RE
.PP
.RS 4
primitive rsc_SAPHana_SLE_HDB00 ocf:suse:SAPHana \\
.br
operations $id="rsc_sap_SLE_HDB00-operations" \\
.br
op start interval="0" timeout="3600" \\
.br
op stop interval="0" timeout="3600" \\
.br
op promote interval="0" timeout="3600" \\
.br
op monitor interval="60" role="Master" timeout="700" \\
.br
op monitor interval="61" role="Slave" timeout="700" \\
.br
params SID="SLE" InstanceNumber="00" PREFER_SITE_TAKEOVER="true" \\
.br
DUPLICATE_PRIMARY_TIMEOUT="7200" AUTOMATED_REGISTER="false"
.PP
ms msl_SAPHana_SLE_HDB00 rsc_SAPHana_SLE_HDB00 \\
.br
clone-max="2" clone-node-max="1"
.RE
.TP
* Search for log entries of the resource agent:
.PP
.RS 4
# grep "SAPHana.*RA.*rc=[1-7,9]" /var/log/messages
.\" TODO: output
.RE
.PP
* Check for working NTP service:
.PP
.RS 4
# ntpq -p
.\" TODO:
.\"     remote           refid      st t when poll reach   delay   offset  jitter
.\"==============================================================================
.\" LOCAL(0)        .LOCL.          10 l   29   64  177    0.000    0.000   0.001
.\"*129.70.132.32   129.70.130.71    2 u   25   64  177   24.844  -25796.   9.929
.\"+141.30.228.4    5.9.110.236      3 u   32   64   77   37.789  -25795.   4.910
.RE
.PP
.\"
.SH FILES
.TP
/usr/lib/ocf/resource.d/suse/SAPHana
    the resource agent itself
.TP
/usr/lib/ocf/resource.d/suse/SAPHanaTopology
    the also needed topology resource agent
.TP
/usr/sap/$SID/$InstanceName/exe
    default path for DIR_EXECUTABLE
.TP
/usr/sap/$SID/SYS/profile
    default path for DIR_PROFILE
.\"
.\" TODO: INSTANCE_PROFILE
.\"
.SH LIMITATIONS
.br
For the current version of the SAPHana resource agent software package the
support is limited to the following scenarios and parameters:
.br
1. Two-node clusters with single-box to single-box system replication.
.br
2. Technical users and groups such as sidadm are defined locally in the Linux system.
.br
3. Time synchronization between the cluster nodes using NTP.
.br
4. There is no other SAP HANA system (like QA) on the replicating node which needs
to be stopped during takeover.
.br
5. Only one system replication for the SAP HANA database.
.br
6. Both SAP HANA instances have the same SAP Identifier (SID) and Instance Number.
.br
7. Beside SAP HANA you need SAP hostagent to be installed on your system.
.br
8. Automated start of SAP HANA instances during system boot must be switched off.
.br
9. The current resource agent supports SAP HANA in System replication beginning
with HANA version 1.0 SPS 7 patch level 70.
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.br
\fBocf_suse_SAPHanaTopology\fP(7) , \fBntp.conf\fP(5) , 
https://www.suse.com/products/sles-for-sap/resource-library/sap-best-practices.html ,
http://clusterlabs.org/doc/en-US/Pacemaker/1.1/html/Pacemaker_Explained/s-ocf-return-codes.html
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
.br
F.Herschel, L.Pinne.
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
(c) 2014 SUSE Linux Products GmbH, Germany.
.br
The resource agent SAPHana comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
.br
For details see the GNU General Public License at
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
